IN >> THE NEXT BULLISH
CATALYST, THE EARNINGS SEASON.
>> THE FUNDAMENTAL ISSUE IS
REALLY ABOUT EARNINGS
REALIZATION.
>> THIS IS A MOMENT OF PAUSE
THAT MAYBE 2026 IS NOT GOING TO
BE AS SMOOTH AS A LOT OF PEOPLE
ARE ANTICIPATING.
>> THERE IS STILL ROOM TO RUN
HERE.
>> THIS IS "BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE." JONATHAN:
LIVE FROM NEW YORK CITY THIS
MORNING, GOOD MORNING, GOOD
MORNING.
"BLOOMBERG SURVEILLANCE."
PULLING BACK FROM A RECORD, THE
EQUITY MARKET RALLY STALLING AS
PRECIOUS METALS HIT ALL-TIME
HIGHS WHILE INVESTORS ARE
WAITING FOR BANK EARNINGS ON
WALL STREET AND A POSSIBLE
SUPREME COURT OPINION ON THE
PRESIDENT'S TARIFFS.
A STACKED WEDNESDAY COMING UP.
ANNMARIE:
THANKS HAVE TO BE IN FOCUS.
NOT EVEN SO MUCH HOW PROFITABLE
THESE WALL STREET BANKS ARE AND
HOW WELL THEY ARE WEATHERING
SOME OF THE STORMS. IT IS ABOUT
THE POPULIST POLICIES COMING
OUT OF THIS ADMINISTRATION.
THE SECOND QUESTION -- THE
FIRST QUESTION WAS ABOUT FED
INDEPENDENCE OR CREDIT CARDS TO
J.P. MORGAN YESTERDAY, AND THEY
CANNOT IMAGINE A SCENARIO WHERE
YOU GET THIS 10% CAP.
HOW CHALLENGING IS THAT GOING
TO BE ON THE EARNINGS CALL
TODAY? JONATHAN:
WHAT IS IT ABOUT J.P.
MORGAN EARNINGS AND THE C-SUITE
THAT WE NEVER TALK ABOUT THE
EARNINGS, WE END UP TALKING
ABOUT OTHER THINGS? ANNMARIE:
IT IS ALMOST SELF-INFLICTED.
ALSO YOU HAVE TO THINK THE
CREDIT CARD DRAMA RIGHT NOW --
WHICH, BY THE WAY, IT IS NOT
LAW. THIS MAY NEVER BECOME LAW.
THIS WAS INTRODUCED LAST YEAR
BY SENATOR BERNIE SANDERS AND
SENATOR JOSH HAWLEY.
CONGRESS WOULD NEED TO ENACT
THIS.
BUT THIS REMINDS ME OF THE
THIRD QUARTER, WHERE
COCKROACHES BECAME THE ENTIRE
BUZZ WORD OF THE EARNINGS
SEASON FOR THESE BANKS BECAUSE
JAMIE DIMON SAID WHEN THERE IS
ONE COCKROACH THERE MAY BE
ANOTHER.
NOW WE ARE TALKING ABOUT CREDIT
CARDS. JONATHAN:
THE HEADLINES ABOUT WHITE HOUSE
POLICY.
WE WILL HEAR FROM BANK OF
AMERICA.
WE WILL HEAR FROM WELLS FARGO.
LATER ON WE WILL HEAR FROM CITI.
LATER TODAY WE WILL HEAR FROM
THE SUPREME COURT.
THE SUPREME COURT OPINIONS AND
THE POTENTIAL THAT THEY RULE ON
THOSE LIBERATION DAY TARIFFS.
ANNMARIE:
THE SUPREME COURT HAS TOLD US
THEY WILL HAVE ANOTHER OPINION
DAY.
THIS IS THE SECOND OPINION DAY
OF THE YEAR.
POTENTIALLY WE WILL GET THAT
DECISION, AND THE PRESIDENT WAS
IN DETROIT YESTERDAY.
HE TALKED ABOUT THIS.
HE SAID, CAN YOU BELIEVE THE
SUPREME COURT IS TRYING TO GO
AFTER MY TARIFFS?
SAID THE LAWSUITS ARE COMING
FROM INDIVIDUALS THAT WANT TO
COZY UP TO CHINA AND THEY ARE
PART OF THE FOREIGN
POLICY-CENTRIC CROWD.
WHAT HE DID SAY SOMETHING
INTERESTING.
"WE WILL FIGURE SOMETHING OUT
IF WE DON'T WIN."
TARIFFS ARE HERE TO STAY.
JONATHAN:
A COUPLE OF THINGS REGARDING
TARIFFS.
ONE WAS TO PUT PRESSURE ON THE
CHINESE.
CHECK OUT THESE NUMBERS.
EXPORTS TO THE U.S.
DROPPED 20% FROM CHINA IN 2025,
YET STILL CHINA PUT UP A RECORD
TRADE SURPLUS. ANNMARIE:
BECAUSE THEY ARE GOING TO LATIN
AMERICA, THEY'RE GOING TO THE
EUROPEAN UNION, WHICH IS GOING
TO HAVE A HUGE PROBLEM AS YOU
SEE THE INDUSTRY HOLLOW OUT.
I THOUGHT THIS WAS RICH.
THE FINANCIAL TIMES CAUGHT THIS.
THE VICE MINISTER OF THE
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION OF
CUSTOMS OF CHINA BLAMED THE
UNITED STATES.
IT SHOULD BE POINTED OUT THAT
SOME COUNTRIES' POLITICS
REGARDING ECONOMIC AND TRADE
ISSUES, USING VARIOUS PRETEXTS
TO RESTRICT IMPORTS FROM CHINA
-- BASICALLY, BLAMING THEIR
RECORD RISE OF EXPORTS ON THE
U.S. JONATHAN:
DO NOT MISS LISA'S CONVERSATION
WITH THE DELTA AIRLINES CEO.
WE WILL CATCH UP WITH LISA
LATER THIS MORNING.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
EQUITY FUTURES ON THE S&P
POINTING TOWARD ANOTHER DAY OF
LOSSES.
COMING UP THIS HOUR, WE WILL
CATCH UP WITH AARON KENNON OF
CLEAR HARBOR, ED MILLS OF
RAYMOND JAMES, AND CHRIS
MARINAC OF JANNEY MONTGOMERY
SCOTT WITH BIG BANK EARNINGS IN
FULL SWING.
WE BEGIN WITH STOCKS PULLING
BACK.
AARON KENNON WRITING, MARKETS
HAVE LIKELY PULLED FORWARD SOME
FUTURE RETURNS WHILE U.S.
EXCEPTIONALISM SHOULD PERSIST.
VALUATIONS STILL MATTER.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
LET'S PICK UP ON THOSE BANK
EARNINGS. WHAT WAS THE LESSON?
WHAT DID WE LEARN FROM WHAT WE
HEARD FROM J.P.
MORGAN AND WHAT WE SAW IN THE
STOCK PRICE REACTION? AARON:
I THINK IT WAS INTERESTING.
WHAT WE HEARD WAS THAT SALES
AND TRADING WAS ACTIVE.
AND UNDERWRITING WAS A LITTLE
WEAK. IT WAS A FOURTH QUARTER.
IT WOULDN'T SURPRISE ME IF WE
SEE THIS PULL FORWARD INTO Q1.
LATE INTO THE FOURTH QUARTER WE
COULD SEE A LITTLE LESS TEMPO
TO THE CADENCE OF M&A ACTIVITY,
BUT LET'S NOT FORGET, J.P.
MORGAN STOCK IS NOT CHEAP.
IT IS A GREAT BANK, BUT IT IS
TRADING AT NOSEBLEED MULTIPLES
TO TANGIBLES BOOK.
EVEN THE C-SUITE KNOWS THAT,
WHICH IS WHY THEY ARE NOT
BUYING BACK THEIR STOCK.
JONATHAN:
LET'S STAY ON THE STOCK STORY.
CAN YOU GIVE THOSE POCKETS OF
WEAKNESS A PASS WHEN THE STOCK
IS SO RICHLY VALUED? MOHAMED:
I THINK SO.
I THINK IF YOU LOOK LONGER THE
STORY FOR THE BANKS, BOTH J.P.
MORGAN AND OTHER MEGABANKS IN
THE U.S., IS STRONG.
I THINK THEY HAVE A REACH NOT
JUST TO THE U.S.
CONSUMER, BUT TO EMERGING
MARKETS.
ANNMARIE POINTED OUT THAT THE
CHINA TREE -- TRADE TRENDS.
THE LIKES OF J.P.
MORGAN ARE ACTIVE IN THOSE
REGIONS.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE MIDDLE-CLASS
ECONOMIC ACTIVITY BETWEEN CHINA
AND ECONOMIC ACTIVITY FROM A
BANKING PERSPECTIVE BETWEEN THE
U.S.
BANKS AND SOME OF THESE AREAS
OF REAL GLOBAL GROWTH GOING
FORWARD I THINK THEY ARE
REASONABLY WELL-POSITION.
JONATHAN:
ANNMARIE ALSO MENTIONED THE
BIGGEST STORIES.
IT WAS THE PUSHBACK ON THE
EARNINGS CALL AND THIS POPULIST
TWIST DOMINATING THE EARLY PART
OF 2026.
HOW WAS THAT INFLUENCING YOUR
APPROACH TO ALLOCATING CAPITAL
FOR THE YEAR AHEAD? MOHAMED:
-- AARON:
IT IS INTERESTING, BECAUSE THE
STOCK MARKET IS REACTING TO NOT
JUST FINANCIALS, THEY ARE
REACTING NEGATIVELY TO THIS
NEWS, AND IT DOES REQUIRE AN
ACT OF CONGRESS.
IT IS THE MARKET READING THE
TEA LEAVES AND THINKING THAT
THE PRESIDENT IS GOING TO BE
ABLE TO NUDGE CONGRESS INTO
VOTING FOR THIS, BECAUSE IT
DOES REPRESENT A GOOD DOSE OF
POPULISM. PERHAPS.
I AM A BIT SKEPTICAL THIS WILL
BECOME A REALITY FROM THE
STANDPOINT OF LAW.
IN REALITY IF YOU WERE TO MOVE
THE PRIME RATE FROM 20%,
AVERAGE CREDIT CARD RATES ARE
20% DOWN TO 10.
I THINK THE ONLY THING IT DOES
IS HURT THE CONSUMERS HE IS
TRYING TO ATTRACT TO VOTE FOR
REPUBLICANS IN THE MIDTERMS.
BECAUSE THEY WILL LOSE THEIR
LINES OF CREDIT. ANNMARIE:
I'M WITH YOU ON, THIS IS
HALF-BAKED.
IT IS JUST A TRUTH SOCIAL ABOUT
THIS IDEA THAT WE ARE GOING TO
HAVE INTEREST RATES CAPPED ON
CREDIT CARDS.
HAVE TO -- IT HAS TO GO THROUGH
CONGRESS AND THERE HAVE BEEN
BILLS FLOATING THAT THE SENATE
AND HOUSE HAVE NOT TAKEN UP.
WHY DOES THE MARKET REACT TO
TRUTHS AND NOT WHEN IT IS A
LEGAL FRAMEWORK SIGNED INTO LAW?
AARON:
IF HE SOMEHOW DECLARES A
NATIONAL EMERGENCY MAYBE THERE
IS A PERIOD OF A FEW MONTHS
WHERE THIS HAS TO WORK ITS WAY
THROUGH THE COURTS TO THEN MAKE
THE CASE THAT THIS IS NOT IN
THE PURVIEW OF THE EXECUTIVE
BRANCH AND REQUIRES LEGISLATIVE
ACTION.
MAYBE THERE IS A CONCERN ABOUT
THAT, AT LEAST TEMPORARILY.
ANNMARIE:
THE MARKET HAS SHRUGGED OFF FED
INDEPENDENCE FOR THE MOST PART.
WHY IS THAT? AARON:
I THINK AT THE END OF THE DAY
THE FED HAS A GROUP OF VOTING
NUMBERS AROUND HIM THAT I
BELIEVE WHETHER OR NOT THEY
AGREE WITH HIM OR NOT BELIEVE
THAT HE IS LOOKING AT THE DATA
AS HE SEES IT AND TRYING TO
MAKE THE BEST CASE FOR HIS VIEW
ON BEHALF OF THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE.
I THINK IT IS A SAD DAY WHEN
YOU HAVE THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH
OF GOVERNMENT SUGGESTING THAT
JUST BECAUSE A FEDERAL RESERVE,
FOMC COMMITTEE -- OF COURSE, HE
IS ONLY ONE VOTE, IS MOVING
RATES LOWER, BUT NOT QUICKLY
ENOUGH.
WE DID SEE A 100 BASIS POINT
CUT IN 2024.
THAT IS NOT FAST ENOUGH, SO
MAYBE HE IS A CRIMINAL AND WE
HAVE TO PUT HIM BEHIND BARS AND
WE ARE GOING TO USE THIS SILLY
IDEA THAT THERE IS A COST
OVERRUN AT THE FED RENOVATION
FOR THIS.
IT DOES NOT SEEM TO BE -- IT
SEEMS BELOW US AS A COUNTRY.
I THINK WE CAN DO BETTER AND
HOPEFULLY THIS WILL PASS.
JONATHAN:
TRACKING THE STORY OVER THE
LAST 12 MONTHS I UNDERSTAND THE
IMPORTANCE OF IT.
I UNDERSTAND THE CONCERN.
BUT CHECK OUT THE BOND MARKET.
TENDS AT 4.15% THIS MORNING.
INCREDIBLY RANGE BOUND.
WE OPENED UP THIS MORNING ABOUT
THESE RECORD HIGHS IN PRECIOUS
METALS.
WHAT CAN YOU SPEAK TO THAT
EXPLAINS SOME OF THE ALL-TIME
HIGHS WE ARE SEEING IN PRECIOUS
METALS? AND IS VERY COOL, CALM,
COLLECTED BOND MARKET THAT HAS
DOMINATED THE LAST SEVERAL
MONTHS? AARON:
I THINK INVESTORS ARE KEEPING
THEIR EYE ON THE BALL.
WHAT IS THAT BALL?
THE BALL IS THE BIG, BEAUTIFUL
BILL IS GOING TO START TO
FUNNEL SIGNIFICANT STIMULUS
INTO THE ECONOMY ON THE PART OF
THE CONSUMER AS OF JANUARY 1.
WE ARE ALSO GOING TO SEE
ACCELERATED DEPRECIATION ON THE
INDUSTRIAL SIDE.
THAT IS A HUGE POTENTIAL GROWTH
CATALYST. I THINK WITH THE
MARKET IS TELLING US, WHEN YOU
LOOK AT THE METALS SIDE, IT IS
NOT JUST GOLD.
IT IS ALUMINUM, IT IS PLATINUM.
STARTING INTO THE INDUSTRIAL
SIDE OF THINGS, MID SINGLE
DIGITS ALREADY THIS YEAR, OR
DOUBLE DIGITS IN SOME CASES.
THIS IS A GROWTH STORY.
WE HAVE GONE FROM A PERIOD
WHERE THE LAST SUPER CYCLE IN
COMMODITIES WAS ONE BASED ON
GLOBALIZATION, THE DEMAND SIDE.
NOW WE ARE IN THIS PERIOD OF
FRAGMENTATION.
WE ARE NOTICING FOR NATIONAL
SECURITY PURPOSES AND OTHER
REASONS THAT THAT FRAGMENTATION
BEHOOVES US TO ENSURE THAT WE
HAVE METALS THAT ARE REQUIRED
TO BUILD MUSCLES -- MISSILES,
METALS REQUIRED TO BUILD OUT AI
AT HOME AND WITH OUR ALLIES,
AND THAT IS ONE OF THE REASONS
WE ARE STARTING TO SEE THIS
SUPER CYCLE RESTART AGAIN.
JONATHAN:
WE SAW AT THROUGHOUT THE LAST
YEAR AS WELL.
GOLD WAS HIGHER LAST YEAR, AS
YOU POINTED OUT.
HOW ARE YOU THINKING ABOUT
PLAYING THIS STORY THROUGH 2026?
AARON:
I THINK THE METALS STORY HAS
LEGS.
I THINK THE GOLD STORY HAS LEGS
AT THE END OF THE DAY.
GOLD IS, I BELIEVE, JUST
ANOTHER CURRENCY.
IT IS JUST NOT A FIAT CURRENCY.
IF YOU LOOK AT CENTRAL BANK
BUYING OUTSIDE THE UNITED
STATES, PARTICULARLY AMONG
ENTITIES NOT AS FAMILIAR WITH
US -- RUSSIA, CHINA, AND OTHERS
-- THEIR NET GOLD PURCHASES
OVER THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS
HAS SKYROCKETED.
IF YOU LOOK AT FOREIGN RESERVES
OF GOLD FROM JUST 20 TODAY HAS
GONE FROM 6% TO 22% OF CENTRAL
BANK FOREIGN RESERVES.
I THINK THAT BID CONTINUES.
I DON'T SEE ANY REASON WHY IT
WOULDN'T, AND OF CHINA IS
TRADING LESS WITH THE UNITED
STATES AND DOING MORE BUSINESS
WITH LATIN AMERICA AND EMERGING
MARKETS I THINK THAT IS A CASE
FOR THEM TO BE DOING TRADE IN
THOSE COUNTRIES, RECEIVING THAT
CURRENCY, AND PUTTING IT INTO
GOLD RESERVES. JONATHAN:
GOLD UP 1% SO FAR THIS MORNING.
AARON KENNON OF CLEAR HARBOR
ASSET MANAGEMENT.
NUMBERS FROM BANK OF AMERICA,
WELLS FARGO, CITI, PLUS WE WILL
GET SOME DATA, PPI AND U.S.
RETAIL SALES.
LET'S GET YOU AN UPDATE ON
STORIES WITH YOUR BLOOMBERG
BRIEF. THERE IS VONNIE QUINN.
>> PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
DISMISSING JAMIE DIMON'S
CRITICISM OVER THE DOJ PROBE
INTO THE FEDERAL RESERVE.
THE PRESIDENT SAYING JAMIE
DIMON WAS WRONG TO SUGGEST HE
WAS UNDERMINING THE
INDEPENDENCE OF THE CENTRAL
BANK.
THE PRESIDENT SANK, "I THINK IT
IS FINE BUT I'M DOING.
WE HAVE A BAD FOR PERSON."
THE PRESIDENT ALSO WEIGHING IN
ON IRAN, TELLING THE IRANIAN
PEOPLE TO CONTINUE PROTESTING.
THE PRESIDENT SAYING HE WILL,
"ACT ACCORDINGLY UNCLE ONCE HE
GETS A SENSE OF HOW MANY
DEMONSTRATORS HAVE BEEN KILLED.
MORE THAN 2500 PEOPLE HAVE DIED
IN MORE THAN TWO WEEKS OF
PROTESTS.
NETFLIX IS WORKING ON REVISED
TERMS FOR ITS WARNER BROS.
BID AND IT IS DISCUSSING AN ALL
CASH OFFER.
SOURCES TELLING US AT BLOOMBERG
CHANGES ARE DESIGNED TO SPEED
UP A SALE THAT COULD TAKE
MONTHS AND FACES PUSHBACK FROM
POLITICIANS AS WELL AS A
HOSTILE BID FROM PARAMOUNT SKY
DANCE.
THAT IS YOUR BLOOMBERG BRIEF.
JONATHAN:
MORE IN ABOUT 30 MINUTES' TIME.
NEXT, PRESIDENT TRUMP TAKING ON
JAMIE DIMON. PRES. TRUMP:
I THINK IT'S FINE WHAT I AM
DOING. WE HAVE A BAD FED PERSON.
HE WAS EXTENDED BY BIDEN AND I
THINK HE IS WRONG.
HE HAS DONE A BAD JOB.
WE SHOULD HAVE LOWER RATES.
JAMIE DIMON WANTS HIGHER RATES.
MAYBE IT MAKES MORE MONEY THAT
RIGHT. JONATHAN:
THAT NEXT WITH ED MILLS OF
RAYMOND JAMES.
FROM NEW YORK CITY THIS
MORNING, GOOD MORNING. ♪
TH
JONATHAN:
24 HOURS COMING UP PACKED WITH
BANK EARNINGS.
LATER ON THIS HOUR YOU WILL
HEAR FROM BANK OF AMERICA AND
WELLS FARGO.
CITI AS WELL REPORTING LATER
THIS MORNING.
TOMORROW MORGAN STANLEY.
ALSO AT A: 30 PPI AND U.S.
RETAIL SALES.
WE WENT THREE DAYS WITHOUT
LOSSES.
THAT CHANGED YESTERDAY ON THE
S&P, POINTING TOWARD THE FIRST
BACK-TO-BACK LOSSES ON THE S&P
POTENTIALLY FOR THE NEW YEAR.
ON THE S&P THIS MORNING WE ARE
DOWN BY .4%.
UNDER SURVEILLANCE THIS
MORNING, PRESIDENT TRUMP TAKING
ON JAMIE DIMON. PRES. TRUMP:
I THINK IT'S FINE WHAT I'M
DOING. WE HAVE A BAD FED PERSON.
HE WAS EXTENDED BY BIDEN AND,
YEAH, I THINK HE IS WRONG.
HE HAS DONE A BAD JOB.
WE SHOULD HAVE LOWER RATES.
JAMIE DIMON PROBABLY WANTS
HIGHER RATES.
MAYBE HE MAKES MORE MONEY THAT
ROY -- THAT WAY. JONATHAN:
TRUMP DISMISSING JAMIE DIMON'S
SUGGESTION THAT HIS PROBE INTO
THE FEDERAL RESERVE WILL HAVE
CONSEQUENCES FOR THE ECONOMY.
JOINING US IS TYLER KENDALL.
CERTAINLY A BIG FEATURE OF THE
NEWS FLOW IN THE LAST DAY OR SO.
TYLER:
THIS IS THE LATEST FRICTION
POINT BETWEEN WALL STREET AND
PRESIDENT TRUMP DURING THE WEEK
WHERE WE HAVE SEEN ATTACKS ON
THE FEDERAL RESERVE, BUT ALSO
POLICY PROPOSALS THAT BIG BANKS
DON'T LIKE.
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S PUSHBACK IS
ALSO NOTABLE BECAUSE AT FIRST
THIS WHITE HOUSE APPEARED TO
TRY TO DISTANCE ITSELF FROM THE
INVESTIGATION.
THE PRESS SECRETARY SAYING
PRESIDENT TRUMP DID NOT HAVE
KNOWLEDGE OF NOR ORDERED IT,
BUT NOW IT APPEARS THE
PRESIDENT IS THROWING HIS
SUPPORT BEHIND IT AND ALSO WENT
ON TO TELL REPORTERS THAT HE
DOES INTEND TO PUSH AHEAD WITH
PLANS TO NAME HIS PICK TO LEAD
THE FEDERAL RESERVE IN THE NEXT
FEW WEEKS.
DESPITE THIS INVESTIGATION
POSING POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
YESTERDAY PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS
IN MICHIGAN AND WENT ON TO
DEFEND HIS IDEA TO CAP INTEREST
RATES AND ALSO DOUBLED DOWN ON
HIS CALL FOR LEGISLATION THAT
WOULD CRACKDOWN ON CREDIT CARD
SWIPE FEES.
THIS ON THE HEEL OF BLOOMBERG
NEWS REPORTING THAT BIG INK
EXECUTIVES ARE CONSIDERING SOME
POTENTIAL OPTIONS COULD PUT ON
THE TABLE AND PRESENT TO THE
ADMINISTRATION IN A BID TO GET
PRESIDENT TRUMP TO BACK OFF
SOME OF THESE IDEAS AHEAD OF
WHAT IS EXPECTED TO BE A
MASSIVE LOBBYING CAMPAIGN ON
CAPITOL HILL AGAINST THEM.
THOUGH IT MAY NOT GET TO THAT.
HOUSE SPEAKER MIKE JOHNSON AND
SENATE MAJORITY LEADER JOHN
THUNE.
TO THROW COLD WATER OVER THE
CREDIT CARD CAP INTEREST RATE
PROPOSALS, CITING CONCERNS THAT
MILLIONS OF AMERICANS COULD BE
AT RISK OF LOSING THEIR CREDIT.
I WILL POINT OUT JOHN THUNE
ALSO SAID HE DOES THINK THE
CREDIT CARD COMPETITION ACT,
THAT BIPARTISAN BILL THAT WOULD
TAKE AIM AT SWIPE FEES WILL GET
A VOTE. AS REPUBLICANS GO ON THE
DEFENSE OVER COST-OF-LIVING
ISSUES. JONATHAN:
THE STORY IS NOT GOING AWAY.
TYLER KENDALL DOWN IN
WASHINGTON.
IN ANOTHER WORLD I WOULD SAY
THE PRESIDENT IS UNFORTUNATELY
WHEN IT COMES TO THESE POLICIES
THAT ARE BEING RECOMMENDED BY
THE WHITE HOUSE WANTING YOU ARE
HEARING IS AGREED BY A LOT OF
PEOPLE IN WALL STREET THAT
THESE KIND OF POLICY PROPOSALS
COULD LEAD TO AN OTHERWISE
UNJUSTIFIED TIMING OF FINANCIAL
CONDITIONS.
THEY ARE THE KIND OF THINGS
THIS PRESIDENT AND WHITE HOUSE
DOES NOT WANT TO SEE. ANNMARIE:
YOU PUT CAP ON SOMETHING AND IT
MEANS YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE LESS
OF SOMETHING.
WHICH IS WHY YOU ARE SEEING A
TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF PUSHBACK
FROM A LOT OF ECONOMISTS.
YOU SEE A LOT OF BANK CEOS NOT
JUST TRYING TO CURRY FAVOR WITH
THE PRESIDENT, CALLING
TREASURY, BUT IF THEY HAVE TO,
THEY ARE THINKING ABOUT
POTENTIAL CREDIT CARD THEY
COULD, WHAT THAT HAS A LOWER
RATE, MAY BE FOR CERTAIN
INDIVIDUALS.
BUT THIS IS GOING TO BE A
YEAR-LONG STORY.
ESPECIALLY SINCE YOU HAVE TWO
BILLS CIRCULATING IN CONGRESS.
JONATHAN:
ED MILLS OF RAYMOND JAMES WITH
US NOW. I HAVE BEEN TOLD THIS IS
POPULIST BARK, THERE IS NO BITE.
DO THINK THERE COULD BE A BITE
LATER THIS YEAR? ED: POSSIBLE.
I THINK THE BIGGER ISSUE FOR A
LOT OF FOLKS I HAVE TALKED TO
IS THAT CREDIT CARD COMPETITION
ACT. IT WAS NOT A SENSE THAT WE
COULD SEE IN CONGRESS A CAP ON
THOSE CREDIT CARD INTEREST
RATES. HAVE EXAMINED THIS.
IT WAS NO EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY,
EVEN USING EMERGENCY AUTHORITY
THAT EXISTS TO PUT THIS THROUGH.
A LOT OF INVESTORS ARE NERVOUS
FOR A COUPLE OF REASONS.
ONE, WHEN DONALD TRUMP SAYS
SOMETHING OFTEN TIMES HE GOES
OUT WITH THE MOST EXTREME
POSITION, AND THEN NEGOTIATES
INTO SOMETHING THAT WILL BE
CONSIDERED REASONABLE LATER.
IS HE GOING TO BE 36%?
IS THERE SOMETHING ELSE OUT
THERE?
I'M AN INVESTOR PERSPECTIVE ONE
THING WE HAVE TALKED A LOT
ABOUT AT RAYMOND JAMES IS OFTEN
TIMES FOR FINANCIALS YOU NEED
100 REASONS TO OWN THEM, ONE
REASON TO SELL THEM.
INVESTORS ARE STARTING TO WARM
UP TO FINANCIALS AGAIN AND OUT
OF THE BLUE WE START GETTING
BOMBARDED WITH SOME OF THESE
ONE OFFS THAT GET A LOT OF
PEOPLE ASKING, CAN YOU SUSTAIN
A RALLY IN THIS GROUP IF YOU
ARE GOING TO HAVE THE POLICY
RISK?
ANNMARIE:
FOR THE FOURTH QUARTER CREDIT
CARDS OTHER NEW COCKROACHES.
WHEN IT COMES TO THIS
LEGISLATION IN CONGRESS YOU
THINK THE COMPETITION BILL HAS
A LOT MORE RAGS -- LEGS THAN
THE CAP ON CREDIT CARD INTEREST
RATES? ED:
BACK WHEN I WORKED ON CAPITOL
HILL ONE OF THE BILLS I WORKED
ON WAS THE CARD ACT.
IT IS HERE ON MY WALL, WHICH
IMPLEMENTED THE CONSUMER
PROTECTIONS AROUND CREDIT CARDS.
THIS IS SOMETHING I HAVE WORKED
ON FOR MORE THAN 20 YEARS.
WHEN I HAVE SEEN IS THERE IS
NOT A LOT OF SUPPORT FOR RATE
CAPS BECAUSE THERE ARE CONCERNS
ABOUT CREDIT AVAILABILITY.
HOWEVER, ON INTERCHANGE IT IS A
COMPLETELY DIFFERENT FIGHT.
YOU HAVE TWO REALLY WELL-HEELED
LOBBIES.
THE RETAILERS VERSUS THE BANKS.
WE IN THE PAST HAVE HAD
LIGHTNING STRIKE IN THE BOTTLE
AND CHANGE DEBIT CARD
TRANSACTIONS.
MARSHALL, A REPUBLICAN FROM
KANSAS, USED THE PUSH BY DONALD
TRUMP ON RATE CAPS TO GET HIM
ONTO THIS BILL, ON CREDIT CARD
COMPETITION.
WHENEVER THERE IS A VOTE ON
SOMETHING THAT CAN BE THE WHOLE
BALLGAME.
THERE HAS BEEN A CONCERTED
EFFORT SINCE THE AMENDMENT
PASSED IN 2010 ON A CREDIT CARD
INTEREST TO NEVER HAVE ANOTHER
VOTE ON THIS, BECAUSE WHEN
THERE IS A VOTE IT IS
UNPREDICTABLE.
I STILL DON'T THINK IT PASSES,
BUT THE RISK IS HIGHER ON THE
INTERCHANGE BILL THAN THE CAP
ON INTEREST RATES. ANNMARIE:
DO YOU THINK THE BANKS ARE
OVERREACTING A LITTLE BIT? ED:
I THINK WITH THE BANKS ARE
DOING IS TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT THEY CAN DO TO PUT A CAP
ON THE RISK.
IS THERE SOMETHING THEY CAN DO
FROM A BUSINESS PERSPECTIVE TO
GET DONALD TRUMP TO FOCUS
ELSEWHERE? HE IS VERY FOCUSED ON
AFFORDABILITY.
THEY ARE HAVING A HUGE LIST OF
OTHER THINGS THEY WANT TO SEE
HAPPEN IN D.C..
THE DEREGULATORY AGENDA IS BIG
FOR THE BANKS.
IF THEY DON'T DO SOMETHING ON
CREDIT CARDS SOME OF THE OTHER
PARTS OF THE DEREGULATORY
AGENDA GET SIDELINED?
DO THEY NOT GET THE RELIEF THEY
ARE EXPECTING ON TAILORING MORE
CAPITAL RETURN ON STRESS TESTS?
THERE ARE SO MANY THINGS THE
BANKS HAVE GOING RIGHT NOW IN
D.C., THEY DO NOT WANT THIS TO
BE THE THING THAT STOPS ALL OF
THE OTHER BENEFITS THEY ARE
GETTING OUT OF FEDERAL
REGULATORS. JONATHAN:
WHAT HAS BEEN YOUR REACTION TO
THE COMMUNICATION WITH THE
MAYOR OF NEW YORK?
FROM THE SENATOR OF
MASSACHUSETTS?
WHAT IS THE STRATEGY FOR THE
WHITE HOUSE? ED:
PART OF THE REASON DONALD TRUMP
WAS ABLE TO GET ELECTED IN 2016
AND 2024 WAS TAPPING INTO
POPULISM.
THERE WAS A CROSSOVER BETWEEN
BERNIE SANDERS VOTERS AND FOLKS
WHO HAVE VOTED FOR DONALD TRUMP
IN THE GENERAL ELECTION.
IT IS NOT A SURPRISE TO ME THAT
HE HAS EMBRACED SOME OF THESE
CONVERSATIONS, AND THE CREDIT
CARD 10% CAP, THAT IS A BERNIE
SANDERS BUILD WITH JOSH HAWLEY,
A REPUBLICAN FROM MISSOURI.
HE IS TAPPING INTO THINGS HE
KNOWS ARE POPULAR WITH VOTERS.
HE SEES WHAT MAMDANI WAS ABLE
TO DO IN THE PRIMARY, BEING
ABLE TO WIN IN NEW YORK.
TAPPING INTO AN ENERGY THAT HE
TAPPED INTO HIMSELF AND SEEMED
TO SEEING IF HE CAN GET THAT
FOR THE MIDTERM ELECTIONS
BECAUSE HE'S -- HE SEES A
MIDTERM ELECTION WITH HEADWINDS.
HE THINKS HE CAN FIX THE
PROBLEM. JONATHAN:
HOW BIG IS THAT GROUP OF VOTERS
THAT ARE NOT MARRIED TO A
POLITICAL PARTY BUT TAP INTO
THESE IDEAS? ED:
IT IS AT LEAST 10%.
I THINK THERE IS A GOOD NUMBER
OF FOLKS WHO LOOK AT D.C.
AND DO NOT THINK THEY ARE ON
THEIR SIDE.
THEY THINK THAT THINGS ARE
UNAFFORDABLE.
SO, WHEN WE HAVE AFFORDABILITY
AS HIS PITCH HE THINKS IT IS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO BRING THOSE
VOTERS OR KEEP THOSE VOTERS ON
HIS SIDE.
WE ARE GOING TO HAVE A DAVOS
SPEECH THAT FOCUSES ON HOUSING.
WE ARE GOING TO FOCUS ON ENERGY.
THAT BRINGS IN VENEZUELA.
THE FIGHT WITH JAY POWELL, HE'S
NOT GOING TO SAY IT IS A FIGHT
ABOUT INDEPENDENCE.
IT IS A FIGHT ABOUT HOW MUCH IT
COST YOU TO RUN YOUR LIFE AND
AFFORDABILITY IS A MUCH BETTER
PLACE TO PUT YOUR -- KIND OF
CENTER THAT POLITICAL FIGHT
VERSUS A FIGHT OVER
INDEPENDENCE, WHICH MOST VOTERS
DON'T REALLY FOCUS ON THAT
INDEPENDENCE.
IT IS MUCH MORE THE MARKET THAT
DOES.
IT IS A HUGELY IMPORTANT THING
BUT NOT SOMETHING THAT SWAYS
THE AVERAGE VOTER. JONATHAN:
THEY WILL FEEL IT IF IT FALLS.
ED MILLS OF RAYMOND JAMES.
THEY WILL FEEL IT WITH HIGH
RATES. ANNMARIE:
BUT ALSO ONE THING TO NOTE,
WHEN THERE WAS POLLING DONE
ABOUT THE HIGHEST RANKING
POLITICIANS, JAY POWELL CAME
OUT ON TOP AHEAD OF EVERYONE.
JONATHAN:
WE WILL TALK ABOUT CENTRAL-BANK
INDEPENDENCE.
HE WILL CATCH UP WITH VERONICA
CLARK OF CITI. ♪
JONATHAN:
LIVE FROM NEW YORK CITY THIS
MORNING, GOOD MORNING.
EQUITY FUTURES DOWN BY .4% ON
THE S&P.
WE WENT THREE DAYS WITHOUT
LOSSES AND NOW WE ARE LOOKING
AT BACK-TO-BACK LOSSES ON THE
S&P.
AS WE COUNT DOWN TO THE OPENING
BELL LET'S GET YOU SOME MORNING
MOVERS.
>> GOLD, SILVER HITTING RECORD
HIGHS AND THAT IS POWERING
MINING STOCKS THIS MORNING AS A
FEW POWERFUL FACT IS COME
TOGETHER.
WE HAD THAT SOFTER CPI PRINT
YESTERDAY FUELING EXPECTATIONS
FOR FED RATE CUTS.
PLUS ALL OF THE POLITICAL
PRESSURE WE HAVE SEEN MOUNTING
ON THE FED, FUELING DEBASEMENT
TRADE. MAJESTIC SILVER UP 2.5%.
MEANWHILE, WE ARE SEEING
NETFLIX SHARES RISING 2% IN THE
LATE PREMARKET ON OUR REPORTING
THAT FLIX IS CONSIDERING MAKING
A CASH OFFER FOR WARNER BROS.
DISCOVERY TO SPEED UP A SALE IN
A FIGHT THAT HAS TURNED
INCREASINGLY CONTENTIOUS.
JUST THIS WEEK WE HAD
PARAMOUNT'S GUY DANCE SAYING IT
WAS SUING AND PLANNING TO
NOMINATE DIRECTORS TO THE BOARD
OF WARNER BROS.
AS IT CONTINUES ITS AGGRESSIVE
PURSUIT OF THE MEDIA COMPANY.
THE END ON CHINA'S BIGGEST
ONLINE TRAVEL PLATFORM.
ITS ADRS ARE FALLING MORE THAN
10% IN THE PREMARKET ON NEWS
CHINA'S MARKET WATCHDOG HAS
LAUNCHED AN ANTITRUST PROBE ON
IT JUST AHEAD OF THE BUSY LUNAR
NEW YEAR TRAVEL PERIOD.
THIS IS THE SAME REGULATOR THAT
INVESTIGATED ALIBABA.
THAT LED TO A RECORD FINE.
CHIP.COM SAYS IT IS COOPERATING.
JONATHAN: THANKS FOR THE UPDATE.
I PROMISED YOU SOME BANK
EARNINGS.
THE LATEST FROM WELLS FARGO
CROSSING MOMENTS AGO.
WITH THOSE NUMBERS HERE IS DANI
BURGER. DANI: IT IS A MESS.
THIS IS THE ONE SENDING SHARES
LOWER, COMING IN FOR THE
QUARTER AT $12.3 BILLION.
THE ESTIMATE WAS FOR 12.4
BILLION DOLLARS.
AT THE SAME TIME THEIR FEES DID
MISS ON INVESTMENT BANKING.
THE ESTIMATE WAS JUST FOR UNDER
$800 MILLION.
EXPENSES, THOSE ARE ALSO HIGHER.
$13.7 BILLION.
THE ESTIMATE WAS FOR 13.6
BILLION.
SO, JUST TO RECAP, IT IS HIGHER
EXPENSES, WORSE THAN EXPECTED
NET INTEREST INCOME, WORSE THAN
EXPECTED INVESTMENT BANKING
FEES.
THOSE ARE GOING TO BE SOME OF
THE MORE IMPORTANT NUMBERS,
BECAUSE THIS IS A WELLS FARGO
THAT IS TRYING TO GROW MORE
AGGRESSIVELY.
THIS IS ONLY THE SECOND QUARTER
WHERE WELLS FARGO DOES NOT HAVE
ITS ASSET CAP PROVISION.
SOMETHING THE FEDERAL RESERVE
PUT ON IT IN 2018 AFTER A
STRING OF SCANDALS TIED AROUND
IMPROPER CUSTOMER PRACTICES.
THEY HAD TARGETED AGGRESSIVE
GROWTH FOR BOTH ITS INVESTMENT
BANKING, FOR LOANS, FOR THE
POSITS TOO.
LOANS COMING IN BETTER THAN
EXPECTED, AS DID DEPOSITS, BUT
IT IS GOING TO BE AN ISSUE FOR
THEM.
THEY ARE SEEING THEIR TOTAL
EXPENSES AT $55.7 BILLION.
THAT IS ABOUT A LITTLE HIGHER
THAN IT WAS FOR 2025, SO THAT
IS NOT GREAT NEWS EITHER.
I JUST WANT TO LAY OUT WHAT
THEY SEE FOR THEIR VIEW OF NET
INTEREST INCOME FOR 2026.
THEY ARE SEEING $50 BILLION.
THAT IS A MESS.
AGAIN, WELLS FARGO PUTTING IN
THE COMMENTARY THAT THEY ARE
TARGETING INCREASED GROWTH.
THE CFO SAYING THEY ARE NOW
EXCITED TO COMPETE ON A LEVEL
PLAYING FIELD, BUT FOR NOW THE
NUMBERS ARE NOT MATCHING UP TO
WHAT THE EXPECTATIONS WERE.
JONATHAN:
THAT HEADLINE FROM THE CEO, YOU
NAILED IT.
PLAGUED BY THE ASSAY CAP FOR SO
LONG.
TO WHAT EXTENT DO YOU THINK
INVESTORS WILL GIVE THIS
COMPANY A PASS THIS MORNING?
DANI:
THE ISSUE IS THAT THE SHARES
HAVE BEEN OUTPERFORMING, SO
INVESTORS HAVE BEEN GIVING THEM
ROOM TO GROW.
THEY HAVE RALLY 34% IN 2025.
THAT COMPARES TO 14% FOR THE
S&P FINANCIALS INDEX.
THEY ARE COMING FROM A LOWER
LEVEL THAN OTHER BANKS, SO
MAYBE THERE IS ROOM FOR
INVESTORS TO GIVE THEM THE TIME.
THIS IS THE STORY FOR THE BANK
EARNINGS THIS QUARTER.
THAT THEY ARE TRADING AT RICH
VALUATIONS, SO NOW IS THE TIME
TO SHOW UP WITH THE ANIMAL
SPIRITS REIGNITED IN THIS
MARKET. JONATHAN:
WE SAW THAT WITH JP MORGAN
YESTERDAY.
A SMALL MESS, BUT THAT IS NOT
OK GIVEN THE RATHER WE HAVE
SEEN OVER THE LAST YEAR.
WELLS IS DOWN ABOUT .8%.
IN ABOUT 10 MINUTES TIME WE
SHOULD GET NUMBERS FROM BANK OF
AMERICA. THANK YOU.
WELLS FARGO DOWN THERE BY .8%.
SOME OF OUR TOP STORIES.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP URGING
IRANI TO CONTINUE PROTESTING,
SAYING HELP IS ON THE WAY.
THE PRESIDENT ADDING, HE WILL
ACT ACCORDINGLY ONCE ASSESSING
HOW MANY DEMONSTRATORS HAVE
BEEN KILLED. ELSEWHERE THE U.S.
SUPREME COURT RELEASING
DECISIONS AT 10:00 A.M.
EASTERN TIME, INCLUDING
POSSIBLE RULING ON LIBERATION
DAY TARIFFS.
THE JUSTICES WILL DETERMINE IF
THE WHITE HOUSE BYPASSED
CONGRESS.
FINALLY, CHINA'S TRADE SURPLUS
SURGING IN 2025.
FUELED BY A JUMP IN GLOBAL
EXPORTS.
SHARE OF CHINESE EXPORTS
FALLING TO A HISTORIC LOW LAST
YEAR. ANNMARIE:
WHAT CHINA IS DOING IS FINDING
OTHER MARKETS THEY COULD SELL
TO OR OTHERS MAY VIEW AS
DUMPING ON OTHER MARKETS.
SOUTHEAST ASIA, LATIN AMERICA,
EUROPE, WHICH IS GOING TO HAVE
A BIG PROBLEM IN TERMS OF
HOLLOWING OUT THERE BIG
INDUSTRIES.
BUT I FIND JUST PRECIOUS AND
RICH THIS MORNING IS A COMMENT
FROM A CHINESE OFFICIAL TALKING
ABOUT THE FACT THAT, ACTUALLY
WE WOULDN'T HAVE THIS BIG OF A
SURPLUS, IT WOULD BE MORE
BALANCED -- THEY ARE SAYING IT
WOULD BE MORE BALANCED IF WE
DID NOT HAVE THESE EXPORT
CONTROLS AND HIGH TARIFF RATES
AND WE COULD IMPORT MORE WHEN
IT COMES TO THE HIGH-TECH
SECTOR FROM THE UNITED STATES.
BUT CHINA, THEY WILL FIND OTHER
PLACES TO PUSH ALL OF THEIR
GOODS. JONATHAN:
OBJECTIVES MATTER AND LISTENING
TO THE TREASURY SECRETARY OVER
THE LAST YEAR IF YOU ASK HIM
ABOUT TARIFFS AND WHAT THE GOAL
WAS, WANTING TO BRING
MANUFACTURING HOME, THE OTHER
WAS A BIG PUSH FROM THE
TREASURY TO PUSH THE CHINESE TO
CHANGE THEIR ECONOMIC MODEL AND
REDUCE THEIR DEPENDENCE ON
EXPORTS.
OBVIOUSLY THINGS ARE WORKING TO
SOME EXTENT TO BRING
MANUFACTURING HOME, TO REDUCE
EXPORTS. BUT WHAT YOU ARE SEEING
ELSEWHERE, THE TRADE SURPLUS IS
OUT OF -- IS AT A RECORD.
IF YOU WANT THE CHINESE TO
CHANGE THEIR ECONOMIC MODEL YOU
NEED THE EUROPEANS TO COME
ALONG WITH YOU. ANNMARIE:
ALSO SOME COUNTRIES IN
SOUTHEAST ASIA.
LOOK AT WHAT IS HAPPENING IN
INDIA.
COULD INDIA ALSO PUT UP SOME
WALLS WHEN IT COMES TO CHINA?
LATIN AMERICA?
WHAT I FOUND INTERESTING ABOUT
THE TREASURY SECRETARY, WHO
CONSTANTLY TALK ABOUT, CHINA
NEEDS TO REBALANCE THEIR
ECONOMY.
HE ONCE DESCRIBED TO ME IS THAT
FILM "FANTASIA,"
HE MOP AND IT CONTINUES TO HAVE
A SPILL AND IT IS CONTINUOUSLY
CYCLICAL. JONATHAN:
LET'S FOCUS ON THE U.S. ECONOMY.
TRADERS ADDING TO RATE CUT
THAT'S WITH AN EXPECTED CPI
PRINT.
MORE DATA ON DECK THIS MORNING.
VERONICA CLARK OF CITI WRITING,
FURTHER SHIFTS AWAY FROM THE
UPSIDE SHOULD HAVE FED
OFFICIALS MORE COMFORTABLE
CUTTING RATES FURTHER IN MARCH,
JULY, AND SEPTEMBER.
GOOD MORNING.
LET'S GET TO THOSE THIS
INFLATIONARY TAIL INTO 2026.
WHAT IS THE SOURCE OF THAT?
VERONICA:
ALL OF THE Q4 DATA IS HARD TO
READ.
WE HAD A LOT OF MEASUREMENT
ISSUES AROUND THE GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN.
BUT I THINK IT IS WORTH SAYING
WE WERE EXPECTING TO SEE MORE
OF A REBOUND FROM THAT WEEK IN
NOVEMBER IN THE DECEMBER CPI WE
GOT YESTERDAY.
WE DID NOT SEE THAT AND IF YOU
GO BEFORE THE GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN WE HAD SOME SOFT
READINGS FOR SEPTEMBER.
I THINK THAT IS A NUMBER OF
MONTHS WHERE WE HAVE BEEN
SURPRISED LOWER AND THERE IS A
LOT OF WEIRD DETAILS, BUT THAT
IS A CONSISTENT SURPRISED LOWER.
JONATHAN:
INFLATION CLOSER TO 3% THAN IT
IS 2%. VERONICA:
ALL OF THE FORWARD-LOOKING
INDICATORS WE HAVE FOUR
IMPORTANT COMPONENTS OF
CONSUMER PRICES HERE I'M
THINKING OF SHELTER INFLATION
-- YOU CAN LOOK AT HOME PRICES,
MARKET RENTS, NEW MARKET RENT
DATA. THOSE TEND TO LEAD SHELTER
INFLATION FROM A YEAR,
YEAR-AND-A-HALF, NINE MONTHS,
THEY HAVE BEEN ABNORMALLY WEAK
FOR ALL OF FIVE.
I HAVE A LOT OF CONFIDENCE THAT
SHELTER INFLATION AND CPI COULD
HAVE A PERIOD WHERE IT IS
SOFTER THAN NORMAL. ANNMARIE:
HOW MUCH YOUR ENERGY PRICES
CONTRIBUTE INTO INFLATION?
VERONICA: IT IS PART OF IT.
BUT THEN YOU DO HAVE STRENGTH
IN ELECTRICITY AND THINGS LIKE
THAT.
THAT IS ALWAYS A CONCERN FOR
HOW THAT COULD FEED INTO GOODS
PRODUCTION, TRANSPORTATION
COMPONENTS OF CORE INFLATION.
WHEN WE LOOK AT CORE INFLATION
WE EXCLUDE THOSE ENERGY COSTS,
BUT OIL PRICES, LOWER.
HOME PRICES SLOWING.
WAGE GROWTH THAT IS SLOWING
MORE. STOP THOSE INFLATIONARY
PRESSURES ARE NOT AS CORE AS
THEY WERE YEARS AGO. ANNMARIE:
THE PRESIDENT SAID, YOUR
DOUGHNUTS GOING TO TRUCKS THAT
GET TRANSPORTED TO YOU, BUT I
LOOK AT FOOD AND HOME IS A
RESTAURANT AND THAT INFLATION
IS INCREASING AS THEY ARE
TRYING TO HAVE THIS
AFFORDABILITY PUSH. VERONICA:
THE PAST THERE HAS NEVER VARIED
-- YOU CANNOT ESTIMATE IT
PRECISELY.
I WOULD BE CAUTIOUS ON THINKING
LOWER ENERGY PRICES ARE GOING
TO HAVE SOFTER INFLATION.
IT IS EVERYTHING ELSE TOO.
JONATHAN:
HOW ARE YOU PAIRING THIS WITH
YOUR VIEW ON THE LABOR MARKET?
VERONICA:
THEY CAN GO HAND-IN-HAND.
THIS IS A LABOR MARKET
GRADUALLY WEAKENING.
IT HAS REALLY BEEN THREE YEARS
NOW WHERE THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
HAS INCREASED SOMETHING LIKE
.4% EVERY YEAR.
THAT IS A REALLY SLOW INCREASE
IN EMPLOYMENT, BUT THAT IS WHAT
IS SUPPOSED TO HAPPEN.
YOU SEE A WEAKENING LABOR
MARKET AND THAT IS WHAT SLOWS
INFLATION. JONATHAN:
THE FED HAS BEEN CUTTING
INTEREST RATES AND PEOPLE ARE
TALKING UP THE TALK OF TAX
REFUNDS OVER THE NEXT SEVERAL
MONTHS.
I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE
TALKING -- WHY DO YOU THINK THE
LABOR MARKET HAS BEEN LEFT
BEHIND? VERONICA:
WE HAVE SEEN REALLY RESILIENT
GROWTH.
CONSUMER SPENDING HAS BEEN
STRONG.
OBVIOUSLY PART OF GROWTH IS
ALSO A I-RELATED INVESTMENT,
WHICH IS NOT GOING TO BE SO
LABOR-INTENSIVE.
MAYBE THAT IS NOT SUPPORTING
THE LABOR MARKET AS MUCH.
WE HAVE HAD THREE YEARS OF
PRETTY CONSISTENT, VERY GRADUAL
WEAKENING IN THE LABOR MARKET,
BUT PEOPLE ARE STILL SPENDING.
I WOULD WORRY THAT AS WE GET TO
HIGHER LEVELS FOR THE
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE AND INCOMES
ARE SLOWING THAT IS A HEADWIND
FOR CONSUMPTION. ANNMARIE:
JP MORGAN RECENTLY CAME OUT
WITH A NOTE SAYING, NO MORE
CUTS THIS YEAR.
YOU HAVE THREE CATS FOR THIS
YEAR.
IS WHAT IS GOING ON WITH THE
FED CHANGE HOW YOU ARE THINKING
ABOUT THE CUTS? VERONICA:
NOT PARTICULARLY.
THE DRAMA, OF COURSE.
NOT IN A BIG WAY.
I THINK CHAIR POWELL AND MOST
FED OFFICIALS ARE GOING TO MAKE
DECISIONS BASED ON THE DATA AT
HAND.
THEY WILL KNOW THAT NOT CUTTING
RATES BECAUSE THE PRESIDENT
WANTS YOU TO IS JUST AS BAD AS
CUTTING RATES BECAUSE THE
PRESIDENT WANTS YOU TO.
I DON'T THINK THAT IS GOING TO
BE A BIG INFLUENCE THE SHIP.
JONATHAN: THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
JOINING US FOR THE LATEST:
THE FEDERAL RESERVE, LOOKING
FOR THREE CATS THROUGHOUT THE
SHIP. LET'S GET YOU AN UPDATE ON
STORIES ELSEWHERE.
LET'S CROSS OVER TO VONNIE
QUINN. VONNIE:
WELLS FARGO OUT WITH ITS
EARNINGS, REPORTING REVENUE
THAT MISSED EXPECTATIONS.
THE BANK AS EXPECT $50 BILLION
FOR 2020 THE CEO SAYING HE IS
PROUD OF THE RESULTS.
JAPANESE PRIME MINISTER TALK
EACH HE IS DISSOLVING THE
COUNTRY'S PARLIAMENT.
SOURCES SAYING TACKY ICHI AIMS
TO HOLD AN ELECTION THAT WOULD
ALLOW HER TO PRESS AHEAD WITH
HER HAWKISH DIPLOMATIC AGENDA
AND PRO-STIMULUS ECONOMIC
POLICIES.
SHE SAYS SHE WILL GIVE MORE
DETAILS NEXT MONDAY.
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION IS
EASING EXPORT RULES FOR
NVIDIA'S AI CHIPS TO CHINA.
THE U.S.
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT SAYS IT
WILL REVIEW APPLICATIONS
CASE-BY-CASE, ALTHOUGH
COMPANIES MUST FOLLOW
REQUIREMENTS.
EXPORTERS MUST ALSO LIMIT
SHIPMENTS TO CHINA TO 50% OF
U.S. PRODUCTION.
THAT IS YOUR BLOOMBERG BRIEF.
JONATHAN:
MORE IN ABOUT 30 MINUTES.
UP NEXT, BULLISH ON THE BIG
BANKS.
>> THE OUTLOOK IS VERY POSITIVE
FOR THE BIG BANKS WHEN YOU
CONSIDER REAL GDP GROWTH
PROBABLY COMES IN THIS YEAR
AROUND 2%. JONATHAN:
MORE BANK EARNINGS UP NEXT.
WE WILL CATCH UP WITH CHRIS
MARINAC OF JANNEY MONTGOMERY
SCOTT.
YOU ARE WATCHING BLOOMBERG TV.
♪
JONATHAN:
STOCKS ARE DOWN BY JUST .4% ON
THE S&P WE ARE DOWN BY .6 ON
THE NASDAQ.
UNDER SURVEILLANCE THIS
MORNING, BULLISH ON THE BIG
BANKS.
>> THE OUTLOOK IS VERY POSITIVE
FOR THE BANKS WHEN YOU CONSIDER
THAT REAL GDP GROWTH PROBABLY
COMES IN THIS YEAR AROUND 2%.
BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY, LOAN
GROWTH HAS PICKED UP.
THEY ARE OVERCAPITALIZE.
GOING TO BE BUYING BACK STOCK
AND MOST OF ALL YOU'RE STILL
GOING TO GET REGULATORY RELIEF.
THE PROFITABILITY FOR THE
INDUSTRY IS VERY STRONG.
JONATHAN:
THE BAR WAS HIGH FOR THESE GUYS.
IF AMERICA JUST BEAT IT.
DANNY HAS THE NUMBERS. DANI:
THE NUMBERS LOOK GOOD.
LET'S START WITH NET INTEREST
INCOME.
THIS NOW REPRESENTS A NEW
RECORD FOR NET INTEREST INCOME
FOR THE FOURTH QUARTER COMING
FROM BANK OF AMERICA.
THAT FIGURE IS $15.75 BILLION.
THE ESTIMATE WAS FOR $15.48
BILLION.
THAT IS ABOVE THE GUY THAT
BRIAN MOYNIHAN GAVE JUST ONE
MONTH AGO.
HE PRIMED THIS MARKET FOR A
SURPRISE TO THE UPSIDE.
THE GOOD NEWS ALSO FOR BANK OF
AMERICA IS THAT THEIR
INVESTMENT BANKING FEES ALSO
OUTPERFORMED.
WE RECALL YESTERDAY THAT J.P.
MORGAN HAD A MISS, SAYING SOME
OF THE DEALS WERE EXTENDED INTO
2026.
THAT DOES NOT APPEAR TO BE AN
ISSUE FOR BANK OF AMERICA.
INVESTMENT BANKING REVENUE
COMING IN AT 1.6 $7 BILLION.
THE ESTIMATE WAS FOR JUST UNDER
THAT AMOUNT.
THEIR DEBT UNDERWRITING DID
MISS, BUT THEIR TRADING
REVENUE, THAT IS A BEAT.
4.5 BILLION DOLLARS.
COMPENSATION EXPENSES, THOSE
ARE HIGHER, BUT MAYBE THE
MARKET CAN OVERLOOK THAT.
WE WILL SEE HOW THAT PLAYS OUT.
THIS IS ALSO BRIAN MOYNIHAN
WHICH A MONTH AGO HAVE BEEN
VERY BULLISH ON THE U.S.,
CONSIDERING BANK OF AMERICA'S
EXPOSURE.
HE CONTINUES THAT BULLISHNESS,
WRITING IN THIS RELEASE WITH
CONSUMERS AND BUSINESSES
PROVING RESILIENT, AS WELL AS
THE REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT AND
TAX AND TRADE POLICIES COMING
INTO SHARPER FOCUS.
WE EXPECT FURTHER ECONOMIC
GROWTH INTO THE AIR WHILE ANY
NUMBER OF RISKS CONTINUE.
NO COMMENTS AS OF YET IN THIS
RELEASE ABOUT WHAT THE CREDIT
CARD LOOK AHEAD IS WITH THAT
10% CAP, BUT JUST GIVEN BANK OF
AMERICA'S EXPOSURE THEY WILL BE
CLOSELY LISTENING TO BOTH THE
MEDIAN ANALYST CALL, WHETHER
RYAN MONAHAN AND THE TEAM GET
INTO THAT. JONATHAN:
I THINK IT IS FAIR TO SAY THAT
C-SUITE IS LESS CONFRONTATIONAL.
BUT I WILL BE ALL EARS AS WELL
LOOKING AHEAD TO THAT EARNINGS
CALL.
THIS C-SUITE IS COMING OFF THE
BACK OF AN INVESTOR DAY.
SAYING WE ENTERED 2026 FOCUSED
ON IMPROVED PROFITABILITY.
HOW BIG IS THIS YEAR FOR THE
TEAM? DANI:
IT LOOKS LIKE IT IS GOING TO BE
ANOTHER BIG YEAR.
THEY ARE GUIDING FOR SOME
SERIOUS BIG DEALS.
THEY ARE INVOLVED IN A RAILROAD
ONE WHICH I SHOULD POINT OUT
WELLS FARGO IS POINTING TO AS
WELL.
BUT IT IS BOTH SIDES OF BANK OF
AMERICA'S BUSINESS, WHICH THEY
ARE LEADING TO, HOPING FOR A
BIG YEAR.
FOR 2026 THEIR NET INTEREST
INCOME GROWTH IS GOING TO BE 5%
TO 7%.
FOR THE FIRST QUARTER THEY SEE
THAT GROWTH COMING IN AT 1%.
THEY ARE EXPECTING TO DELIVER
TWO BASIS POINTS OF OPERATING
LEVERAGE IN 2026.
EXPENSES, THOSE LOOK TO BE
ABOUT 4%, BUT IT IS SOMETHING
JP MORGAN WAS TRYING TO INTO AT
AS WELL.
THAT THEY CAN BECOME MORE
EFFICIENT, THEY CAN GET THAT
PRODUCTIVITY BOOST FROM
DIFFERENT INVESTMENTS, AND THEN
YOU HAVE THE DEALS AND WHAT
THEY SEE AS A STRONG ECONOMY.
THIS IS A BANK WRITING TO A
STRONG 2026. JONATHAN:
MORE LATER THIS MORNING.
CITI REPORTING EARNINGS IN
ABOUT AN HOUR FROM NOW.
CHRIS MARINAC JOINS US NOW.
YESTERDAY WE HAD SOME DECENT
NUMBERS FROM JP MORGAN.
SOME POCKETS OF WEAKNESS AND
THE STOCK FELL 4%.
THIS MORNING WE HAVE A SERIES
OF BEATS FROM BANK OF AMERICA
AND THE STOCK IS UP.
IS THERE SOMETHING WE CAN TAKE
AWAY FROM THE EARLY REACTION TO
SOME OF THESE DECENT NUMBERS?
CHRIS:
I THINK THE MARKET TENDS TO
SELL THE NEWS, SO I'M NOT
SURPRISED BY THAT AT ALL.
I WAS ENTHUSED TO SEE THE
STRONG CREDIT DETAILS THAT --
AT BANK OF AMERICA.
COMMERCIAL LOSSES ARE DOWN.
OVERALL LOSSES ARE DOWN.
THAT IS A VERY GOOD THING.
THAT'S GOING TO CREATE
FLEXIBILITY ON CREDIT COSTS.
IF THEY CAN CONTINUE TO GROW
REVENUE ON TOPLINE SPREAD AS
WELL AS THE INVESTMENT BANKING
CHANNEL IT IS A VERY GOOD YEAR.
I THINK THE STOCK MARKET
SNIFFED THIS OUT, SO THAT IS
WHY YOU SEE SOME PROFIT TAKING.
TODAY WILL NOT BE AS BULLISH,
BUT AT THE END OF THE DAY IT IS
A GOOD SET UP FOR THE FIRST
QUARTER AND THE FULL YEAR.
JONATHAN:
THE COMMENTARY IS PRETTY SOLID.
WE ARE BULLISH ON THE U.S.
ECONOMY. IS IT THAT SIMPLE?
IF THE ECONOMY DOES WELL THESE
COMPANIES DO WELL, THESE STOCKS
SHOULD DO WELL? CHRIS:
I AGREE WITH THAT.
THAT IS THE CASE.
IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE ROCKET
SCIENCE WHEN IT COMES TO HOW
BANKS ACT.
THEY ARE STILL INEXPENSIVE
RELATIVE TO THE S&P.
WE USED TO SEE THESE STOCKS
TRADED 70% OF THE S&P.
THERE IS A COME BACK ON
VALUATIONS.
IF YOU CAN HAVE THE ECONOMY
MOVE FORWARD THESE COMPANIES
ARE POISED TO MAKE A LOT OF
MONEY.
AGAIN, CREDIT COSTS CAN BE
TAMED AND THAT HELPS THE BOTTOM
LINE. ANNMARIE:
CAN THEY ALSO BE CONTAINED IF
WE GET MORE POPULIST POLICIES
OUT OF WASHINGTON?
I'M LOOKING AT THEIR
PRESENTATION.
THEY HAVE ADDED 3.8 MILLION NEW
CREDIT CARD ACCOUNTS.
YESTERDAY FOR JP MORGAN THERE
WERE 10 MILLION.
ARE THEY LESS VULNERABLE TO
SOME OF THESE POLICIES? CHRIS:
EVERYONE IS VULNERABLE BECAUSE
THEY ARE CONCENTRATION OF ONLY
A FEW LARGE BANKS WHO DO CREDIT
CARD LENDING.
EVERYBODY ELSE IN THE INDUSTRY
DOESN'T DO MUCH OF IT.
THE QUESTION IS WHAT WILL
HAPPEN WITH THESE CREDIT CARD
CHANGES?
I THINK A LOT OF PROPOSALS FALL
DEAD AT THE END OF THE DAY, SO
I'M NOT CONVINCED THIS WILL GO
THROUGH.
EVEN IF IT DOES THESE COMPANIES
ARE RESILIENT.
THEY ARE VERY WELL-POSITIONED
ON CAPITAL RESERVES AND THEY
CAN PIVOT IF THEY NEED TO.
ANNMARIE:
IS THERE ANYTHING YOU DON'T
LIKE OUT OF THIS REPORT FROM
BANK OF AMERICA? CHRIS:
WE LIKE TO SEE MORE DEPOSIT
GROWTH.
DEPOSITS WERE POSITIVE, BUT WE
WOULD LIKE TO SEE MORE.
THE INDUSTRY HAD A GREAT
QUARTER ON DEPOSITS, U.S.
DEPOSITS AS WELL AS THE MONEY
MARKETS AND FUND CHANNEL.
THAT HE'S OFFERED GOOD
LIQUIDITY.
I THINK WE ARE GOING TO SEE
MORE EARNINGS ASSET GROWTH FOR
THE BIG BANKS.
WE DID NOT SEE THAT IN THE
FOURTH QUARTER, BUT I THINK YOU
WILL SEE THAT IN ONE Q.
JONATHAN:
HOW DO YOU WANT TO PLAY THIS
LOOKING AT THE NUMBERS FROM
CITI LATER THIS MORNING AND
MORGAN STANLEY AND GOLDMAN
SACHS TOMORROW? CHRIS:
THE BANKS HAVE HAD A HUGE RUN
IN THE LAST TWO TO THREE MONTHS.
I THINK YOU'RE MIDSIZE AND
SMALLER BANKS ARE STILL IN A
CATCH-UP OMIT.
NOT THAT THE LARGE BANKS ARE
NOT GOING TO DO WELL, BUT YOU
CAN SEE A CATCH-UP TRADE IN THE
MID-CAPS.
THAT IS ONE OF THE REASONS WE
LIKE FIRST CITIZENS AND FOR
WORDS AND DOWN TO PINNACLE.
THOSE COMPANIES CAN HAVE A
BETTER VALUATION PICKUP.
THE BUSINESS FOR ALL OF THESE
WILL BE GOOD FOR THE YEAR.
JONATHAN:
DO YOU THINK THE SMALLER NAMES
ARE MORE INSULATED BY THE
ONSLAUGHT OF HEADLINES COMING
FROM THE WHITE HOUSE? CHRIS:
ABSOLUTELY, AND I THINK THE
WHITE HOUSE STILL LIKES
COMMUNITY BANKS.
ULTIMATELY THAT IS GOING TO
HELP THE SMALL-CAP COMPANIES.
THERE IS DEFINITELY A MOVEMENT
TO SUPPORT THE BANKING INDUSTRY
ACROSS ALL ASSET SIZES.
ANNMARIE:
WHEN YOU LOOK AT DIFFERENT
POLICIES COMING OUT OF THE
ADMINISTRATION -- TRADE, TAX,
DEREGULATION -- BUT AT THE SAME
TIME GOING AFTER BANKS WHEN IT
COMES TO THIS PUSH FOR CREDIT
CARDS AND THE INTEREST RATE
CAP, HOW DO YOU THINK THE BANKS
RATE DOING BUSINESS IN THIS
ENVIRONMENT WITH THIS
ADMINISTRATION?
IT WAS A LOT OF EXCITEMENT
ABOUT DEREGULATION AND
POTENTIAL M&A, AND ALL OF A
SUDDEN THERE HAS BEEN OTHER
POLICIES THAT HAVE BEEN
HEADWINDS. CHRIS:
SO, THE BIGGEST CHANGE IS THE
EXAMINER'S ATTITUDE, MAKING M&A
EASIER TO CLOSE.
THOSE ARE HUGE CHANGES.
I THINK THE CREDIT CARD CHANGES
ARE NOISE.
IT IS UNFORTUNATE, BUT I THINK
WE WILL FIGHT THAT BATTLE AND
MOVE ONTO THE BIGGER PICTURE.
I ALSO THINK THAT M&A APPROVALS
ARE MUCH FASTER THAN THEY USED
TO BE. AND WE COULD SEE LARGE
COMBINATIONS. ONCE.
SEE IS ACQUIRED THAT TEASE UP
ACQUISITIONS.
I THINK YOU WILL SEE MORE
ACTIVITY BECAUSE OF THE
REGULATORY WINDOW NOW -- WINDOW.
JONATHAN: TOP PICKS? CHRIS:
FIRST CITIZENS, PINNACLE, ALSO
LIKE AMYRIS BANK. JONATHAN:
CHRIS MARINAC ON THE FINANCIALS.
NOT JUST THE BIG PLAYERS, THE
SMALLER ONES AS WELL.
A VERY BIG PLAYER DELIVERED
NUMBERS. BACK OF AMERICA.
A SERIES OF BEATS FROM THEM AND
THIS COMMENTARY FROM BRIAN
MOYNIHAN. WITH CONSUMERS PROVING
RESILIENT, AS WELL AS TAX AND
TRADE POLICIES COMING INTO
FOCUS, WE EXPECT FURTHER
ECONOMIC GROWTH.
WHILE ANY RISKS CONTINUE, WE
ARE BULLISH ON THE U.S. ECONOMY.
ANNMARIE:
THE WHITE HOUSE HAS THIS
AFFORDABILITY PUSH AHEAD OF THE
ELECTIONS.
POTENTIALLY THIS IS THE WRITTEN
STATEMENT.
WHAT HAPPENS ON THE EARNINGS
CALL WHEN YOU START ASKING
QUESTIONS ABOUT FED
INDEPENDENCE?
THERE HAS BEEN THIS
DEREGULATORY PUSH WHICH THE
BANKS HAVE WELCOMED.
THEY HAVE REALLY WELCOMED FROM
THIS ADMINISTRATION, BUT AT THE
SAME TIME TRADE POLICIES IS
GOING TO COME IN SHARPER FOCUS
TODAY AT 10:00 A.M.
A LOT OF THIS COULD BE UNWOUND
IN TERMS OF THE CONCERNS WALL
STREET HAS HAD ON TRADE POLICY
IF THE SUPREME COURT DECIDES
THIS MORNING TO STRIKE DOWN THE
PRESIDENT'S TARIFFS. JONATHAN:
THAT STOCK IS POSITIVE ON THE
PREMARKET.
THAT IS THE LATEST FROM BANK OF
AMERICA.
ALREADY THIS OUR NUMBERS FROM
BANK OF AMERICA AND WELLS FARGO.
IN ABOUT ONE HOURS TIME WE WILL
HEAR FROM CITI.
LATER THIS MORNING AS WELL,
SOME ECONOMIC DO FOR YOU.
PPI AND U.S. RETAIL SALES.
UP NEXT WE WILL CATCH UP WITH
ANDREW BALLS OF PIMCO, KATE
KALUTKIEWICZ, AND DAVID KELLEY
OF JP MORGAN.
THE SECOND HOUR OF "BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE," UP NEXT.
♪
>> THE SPEED LIMIT ON THE U.S.
ECONOMY IS INFLECTING HIGHER.
>> IS A WINNER AND LOSER'S
ECONOMY.
>> THE K-SHAPED ECONOMY
CONTINUES.
>> INFLATION BECOMES A BIG PART
OF THE STORY AGAIN.
>> THIS IS "BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE"
JONATHAN FERRO, LISA ABRAMOWICZ
AND ANNMARIE HORDERN. JONATHAN:
LIVE FROM NEW YORK CITY, GOOD
MORNING.
FOR THE AUDIENCE WORLDWIDE COME
THE SECOND HOUR STARTS NOW.
THE PRICE ACTION LOOKS LIKE
THIS. DOWN 5.4% ON THE S&P.
BACK TO BACK -- DOWN BY .4% ON
THE S&P.
IT LOOKS A LITTLE SOMETHING
LIKE THIS.
60 MINUTES FROM NOW WE SHOULD
GET NUMBERS FROM CITIGROUP.
30 MINUTES AFTER THAT, DATA,
PPI AND RETAIL SALES.
MAYBE LATER THIS MORNING WE GET
SOME SUPREME COURT OPINIONS ON
THIS LIBERATION DAY TARIFFS.
ANNMARIE:
I SAY WE GET THAT RULING TODAY
AND DAVOS IS NEXT WEEKEND THEY
ARE STRUCK DOWN, THAT WILL BE A
DIFFERENT DAVOS FOR THIS
ADMINISTRATION.
POTENTIALLY COUNTRIES LINING UP
TO RENEGOTIATE THEIR DEALS.
TODAY THE FOCUS IS THE BANKS.
BANK OF AMERICA, PRETTY
INCREDIBLE QUARTER.
THE COMMENTARY FROM THE C-SUITE.
MAYBE SOME SHADE FROM YESTERDAY
WITH JAMIE DIMON.
IN THE EARNINGS RELEASE HE DID
SAY WE ARE SEEING A RESILIENT
U.S. CONSUMER.
WHAT IS BRIAN MOYNIHAN SAYING
TODAY?
WE ARE BULLISH ON THE U.S.
ECONOMY FOR 2026. JONATHAN:
THE BARS ARE REALLY HIGH FOR
THE BANK NAMES.
THE STOCKS HAVE ALREADY HAD A
FANTASTIC RUN.
WE SAW THAT WITH JP MORGAN
YESTERDAY.
THIS MORNING BANK OF AMERICA,
VERY GOOD NUMBERS.
THE STOCK IS UP BY ABOUT 1%.
GIVEN THE YEAR WE HAD FOR SOME
OF THESE NAMES YOU WILL NEED A
TREMENDOUS BEAT TO GENERATE A
BIG RALLY. ANNMARIE:
THE CFO TALKS ABOUT STRONG
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL.
JP MORGAN YESTERDAY DID HAVE
WHAT WAS GOING ON IN TERMS OF
THE CREDIT CARD.
THEY HAVE A LOT OF DEAL FLOW
WITH THE DEALS DID NOT FINISH
IN TIME FOR THE FOURTH QUARTER.
POTENTIALLY THEY WILL BE ABLE
TO BRING IN REVENUE THIS YEAR.
THIS IS WHAT I FIND THE BANKS
INTERESTING AT THIS EXACT
MOMENT.
YOU HAVE CONGRESS AND THE
PRESIDENT CALLING SOMEONE LIKE
ELIZABETH WARREN.
THE PRESIDENT HAVING THIS IT
ALMOST FEELS LIKE A BROMANCE
WITH ZOHRAN MAMDANI.
DID YOU HAVE THIS POPULIST
TRUTH SOCIAL POST COMING OUT
BUT A YEAR WHERE THEY WERE
PUSHING FOR THIS DEREGULATION
PUSH AND IT'S OFF TO THE RACES
FOR THESE FINANCIAL LENDERS.
JONATHAN:
THE MEDIA CALL IS ABOUT 10 OR
15 MINUTES AWAY.
INTERESTING TO SEE HOW BANK OF
AMERICA HANDLES SOME OF THOSE
QUESTIONS VERSUS WHAT WE HEARD
FROM JAMIE DIMON YESTERDAY.
ANNMARIE:
JAMIE DIMON WAS A LITTLE SNARKY.
THE PRESIDENT WAS ASKED ABOUT
IT HE SAID I THINK JAMIE DIMON
IS WRONG WHEN IT COMES TO THE
CONSEQUENCES.
JAMIE DIMON SAID THAT COULD BE
WHEN IT COMES TO FED
INDEPENDENCE MAYBE BRIAN
MOYNIHAN WILL TAKE A DIFFERENT
APPROACH AND WE WILL WAIT FOR
THIS TO PLAY OUT AND LOOK AT
WHAT THE FINANCIAL MARKETS ARE
TELLING YOU.
THE MARKETS ARE NOT PRICING IN
A TURKEY-ARGENTINA CENTRAL BANK
OF THE UNITED STATES. JONATHAN:
YIELDS ARE DOWN BY THREE BASIS
POINTS.
YIELDS DOWN AT THE LONG AND BY
THREE BASIS POINTS.
WE WILL CATCH UP WITH ANDREW
BALLS AS BIG BANK EARNINGS ROLE
IN. WE WILL SPEAK WITH KATE
KALUTKIEWICZ ON A POTENTIAL
SUPREME COURT TARIFF OPINION.
WE WILL CATCH UP WITH DAVID
KELLY AS PRESIDENT TRUMP RAMPS
UP THE PRESSURE ON THE FED TO
CUT RATES.
STOCKS HOLDING STEADY FOLLOWING
AN EARNINGS MISS FROM WELLS
FARGO AND AN UPSIDE SURPRISE
FOR BANK OF AMERICA.
ANDREW BALLS EXPECTING ECONOMIC
RESILIENCE.
"THERE ARE GOOD REASONS TO
EXPECT SUPPORT AND GROWTH WITH
THE TREND TOWARDS WINNERS AND
LOSERS IS LIKELY TO PERSIST."
ANDREW, WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
I WANT TO TALK ABOUT ONE THING,
SOMETHING REALLY BORING WHICH
IS TRADITIONALLY NOT HOW WE
START A CONVERSATION BUT THAT
IS THE 10-YEAR TREASURY.
I'M LOOKING FOR A NATION.
WHY THING SO QUIET IN THE
TREASURY MARKET WHEN THINGS ARE
SO NOISY EVERYWHERE ELSE?
ANDREW:
WE HAVE HAD A PRETTY ROBUST
RANGE FOR A FEW YEARS NOW.
THERE'S AN AWFUL LOT OF NEWS.
WE HAVE HAD SIX MONTHS WORTH OF
NEWS IT FEELS LIKE THE FIRST
COUPLE WEEKS OF THE YEAR.
THE TREASURY MARKET IS PRETTY
CALM IN THE FACE OF THE LATEST
CHALLENGES TO THE FED AND ALL
THE OTHER THINGS GOING ON.
THE INTERVENTIONS IN THE
MORTGAGE MARKET IS A
SIGNIFICANT POSITIVE.
WE THINK IN TERMS OF THE AGENCY
MORTGAGE MARKET.
IN BROAD TERMS YOU HAVE
INFLATION COMING DOWN, GROWTH
RESILIENT.
QUITE POSSIBLY BROADENING
BEYOND JUST THE AI, CAPEX, DATA
CENTER PART OF THE ECONOMY.
DEALING WITH THE FISCAL SUPPORT
IN THE FIRST HALF OF THE YEAR.
A PRETTY REASONABLE OUTLOOK.
IN SPITE OF THE CHALLENGES WE
SEE, THE ECONOMY IS DOING QUITE
WELL IN SPITE OF THE TARIFF
SITUATION. WINNERS AND LOSERS.
WE SEE WEAKNESS IN THE LABOR
MARKET.
CAUTION ON THE PART OF HIRING
DECISIONS ACROSS THE ECONOMY.
IT REMAINS A DIFFICULT ALEC TO
JUDGE BUT PRETTY RESILIENT IN
TERMS OF U.S. OUTPUT. JONATHAN:
I WILL TURN BACK TO THE BOND
MARKET LATER.
HEADLINE GROWTH IS GREAT.
IT HAS BEEN FOR THE LAST
SEVERAL YEARS.
IS THE DISPARITY BENEATH WITH
THE POLITICIANS AS THEY SEEK TO
ADDRESS INEQUALITY.
WITH THAT SHAPE TOPLINE GROWTH?
-- WILL THAT SHAPE TOPLINE
GROWTH? ANDREW:
YOU NEED TO LOOK AT WINNERS AND
LOSERS.
IT LOOKS LIKE WE WILL HAVE
ONGOING POLICY ANNOUNCEMENTS
AIMED AT AFFORDABILITY IN THE
U.S.
WE HAVE TO TAKE THESE AS THEY
COME.
WHEN I STEP BACK, THE 10-YEAR,
OR BROAD NET TO THE MARKET IN
THE U.S., THE U.S.
BOND MARKET AGGREGATE TYPE
FUNDS, YOU CAN GET 6% PLUS IN
TERMS OF THE YIELD.
THIS LOOKS VERY GOOD IN TERMS
OF THE RETURN INVESTORS CAN GET
IN AN ENVIRONMENT WHICH IS
STILL TRICKY, STILL DIFFICULT
IN TERMS OF THE CROSSCURRENTS,
THE WINNERS AND LOSERS, THE
POLICY UNCERTAINTY.
AT A TIME WHEN THE EVALUATIONS
FOR EQUITIES, THEY LOOK PRETTY
FULL FOR THE U.S. MARKET.
BEING ABLE TO GET PAID MAYBE 7%
FOR A HIGH-QUALITY BOND FUND
LOOKS VERY GOOD GIVEN THE
DOMESTIC UNCERTAINTY AND THE
INTERNATIONAL UNCERTAINTY WE
ARE FACING.
THERE'S A QUESTION ABOUT THE
TARIFFS TODAY AT 10:00 A.M.
AND THEY HAVE GENERATED $171
BILLION OF REVENUE FOR THE
TREASURY.
IF WE HAVE A DECISION TODAY
THAT RULES IEEPA ILLEGAL, COULD
OF THE BOND MARKET? ANDREW:
I THINK THE EXPECTATION IS THAT
PENDING THE SUPREME COURT
DECISION, IF THIS GOES AGAINST
THE ADMINISTRATION, THERE ARE
WAYS THE ADMINISTRATION CAN
REINSTATE SIMILAR LEVELS OF
TARIFFS.
THERE WOULD BE UNCERTAINTY.
YOU COULD HAVE SOME REACTION
BUT IN BROAD TERMS THE
EXPECTATION WOULD BE THAT YOU
RE-CREATE SIMILAR TARIFFS,
SIMILAR REVENUE RAISING IN A
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT FORMAT.
ANNMARIE:
THE OTHER DRAMA -- TALKING
ABOUT HOW THE 10-YEAR TREASURY
YIELD HAS BEEN BORING, WHY ARE
WE NOT SEEN BONDS MOVE ON
CONCERN ABOUT FEDERAL RESERVE
INDEPENDENT? ANDREW:
THE BASELINE AND THE RISK CASE.
IN THE BASELINE, YES, THERE IS
NOISE AROUND THE FEDERAL
RESERVE.
THE REAPPOINTMENT -- SORRY, THE
NEW APPOINTMENT OF THE FED
CHAIRMAN THIS YEAR IS VERY
IMPORTANT.
LEGAL CHALLENGES AGAINST THE
SITTING CHAIR CERTAINLY ARE NOT
WHAT YOU WANT TO SEE FROM A
BOND MARKET POINT OF VIEW.
IN THE BASELINE IT LOOKS LIKE
THIS IS PROBABLY MORE NOISE.
THE FED IS PRICED TO GET DOWN
TO ABOUT 3% THIS YEAR.
IT ALL LOOKS PRETTY REASONABLE.
3% FOR THE TERMINAL RATE, 4%
FOR THE 10-YEAR TREASURY.
IT LOOKS VERY REASONABLE.
THEN YOU HAVE THE RISK CASE.
FROM MY POINT OF VIEW, HARD TO
SEE FED HIKES WITH THE
INFORMATION WE HAVE THIS YEAR
AND PROBABLY RISKS TOWARDS
LOWER TERMINAL RATES.
YOU CAN POSITION FOR THAT ON
THE YIELD CURVE.
YOU CAN BE LONGER FRONT END OF
THE CURVE, THE FIVE-YEAR PART
OF THE CURVE.
YOU CONSIDER A CURVE STEEPEN OR.
THAT HAS BEEN WORKING --
STEEPENER.
THAT HAS BEEN WORKING THE LAST
FEW DAYS.
LONG-TERM INTEREST RATES IS
BECOMING MORE ATTRACTIVE.
I THINK YOU CAN POSITION FOR
THIS.
THE MARKETS HAVE GIVEN A LOT OF
CREDIBILITY OR DESCRIBED A LOT
OF CREDIBILITY TO THE FED IN
TERMS OF THE STRENGTH OF THE
INSTITUTION.
I THINK THAT IS RIGHT IN THE
BASELINE, EVEN WITH THE CHANGE
IN THE FED CHAIR.
IT IS ONE AMONG THE GROUP THAT
MAKE THE DECISIONS.
THE RISK CASE I THINK IS
TOWARDS LOWER INTEREST RATES.
WE CAN POSITION FOR THAT.
AT PIMCO WE ARE POSITIONING FOR
THAT ACROSS OUR PORTFOLIOS.
JONATHAN:
ARE YOU POSITIONING FOR HIGHER
RATES IN PLACES LIKE JAPAN?
ANDREW: IT'S INTERESTING.
WE HAVE THIS PERIOD SINCE 2008
WHEN YOU HAD VERY HIGH LEVELS
OF CORRELATION.
CENTRAL BANKS STUCK AT THE
LOWER BAND OR THE QE, ETC.
THEN IT'S MORE INTERESTING IN
TERMS OF GLOBAL MACRO.
DO HAVE COUNTRIES WHERE THEY
MAY BE TIGHTENING THIS YEAR.
JAPAN IS PRICED TO TIGHTEN.
AUSTRALIA IS PRICED TO TIGHTEN.
CANADA PROBABLY IN THE MIDDLE.
THE FED, THE U.K.
PRICED TO EASE.
EMERGING MARKETS PRICED TO EASE.
YOU HAVE A GOOD ENVIRONMENT FOR
CROSS MARKET POSITIONING,
GLOBAL DIVERSIFICATION GIVEN
ALL THE UNCERTAINTIES, THE
CHALLENGES WE HAVE TALKED ABOUT.
GLOBAL DIVERSIFICATION MAKES
MORE SENSE THAN NORMAL IN THIS
ENVIRONMENT.
THE FRONT END OF THE CURVE, A
DIFFERENT CURVE, STEEPENING
TRADES ACROSS COUNTRIES.
POLITICS DRIVING MARKETS IN
JAPAN AT THE START OF THE YEAR.
THE CLEAR INDICATION OF A SNAP
ELECTION TO COME.
THE PRIME MINISTER HOPING TO
GET A MANDATE FOR MORE ACTIVE
FISCAL POLICY.
DIFFERENTIAL FISCAL POLICY
ACROSS COUNTRIES.
FISCAL LOOSENING.
JAPAN, U.S., CANADA, GERMANY
ARE TRYING TO TIGHTEN IN THE
U.K..
FRANCE TENDS TO BE TIGHTER ON
THE EMERGING-MARKET SIDE.
THERE ARE LOTS OF OPPORTUNITIES
HERE FOR THE CROSS-COUNTRY
RELATIVE VALUE TRADING.
JONATHAN: A FINAL NOTE ON JAPAN.
THE JAPANESE GOVERNMENT BOND
MARKET HAS BEEN AN ANCHOR TO
GLOBAL BOND YIELDS.
IT FEELS LIKE IT IS ANCHORS
AWAY, PARTICULARLY IN THE LAST
FEW WEEKS.
THE PROSPECT OF SNAP ELECTIONS
AND MAY BE MORE FISCAL STIMULUS.
HOW INSULATED IS SOMETHING LIKE
THE TREASURY MARKET TO THE
FORCES BUILDING IN A PLACE LIKE
THE JAPANESE GOVERNMENT BOND
MARKET? ANDREW:
THAT'S ACTUALLY GOOD WAY TO
START OUR INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
BECAUSE WE HAVE DIFFERENT VIEWS.
YOU CERTAINLY SEE SPILLOVER
FROM JAPAN TO THE REST OF THE
WORLD AT THE LONG END OF THE
CURVE.
POTENTIALLY THE FRONT END OF
THE CURVE.
I THINK THIS DEEP THIS OF THE
CURVE IN JAPAN IS VERY
INTERESTING.
YOU SEE THIS LEADING AND TERMS
OF THE GLOBAL CURVE SHAPE OTHER
COUNTRIES HAVE BEEN MOVING IN
THAT DIRECTION.
THERE IS SOME SPILLOVER WHEN
YOU QUANTIFY IT.
IT IS NOT HUGE BUT THE
POTENTIAL VOLATILITY FROM JAPAN
THIS YEAR IS JUST ANOTHER CAUSE
FOR INTERESTING MARKETS AND
PROBABLY GOOD OPPORTUNITIES.
JONATHAN:,
LOVER, NOT A FIGHTER.
WHO WANTS TO FIGHT AT NEWPORT
BEACH, CALIFORNIA?
IT IS A BEAUTIFUL PLACE.
ANNMARIE: IT IS A GREAT GIG.
JONATHAN:
ANDREW BALLS TRUMP PIMCO WITH
THE LATEST ON THE MARKET.
TORSTEN SLOK PUBLISHING -- GIVE
ME SOME TIME TO WORK THROUGH
THIS. IN 2025, WE WERE TO
RESTRICTIONS WILL LEAD TO
STAGFLATION BUT THE HEADWINDS
FADED.
THE LIST OF TAILWINDS KEEPS
GROWING AND WE READ ABOUT
OVERHEATING IN 2026.
HE OFFERS A LIST OF 10.
THE TRADE WAR UNCERTAINTY IS
FADING.
STRONG AI AND DATA CENTER
SPENDING.
HI AI STOCK PRICES BOOSTING
WEALTH EFFECTS FOR CONSUMERS.
DOLLAR DEPRECIATION.
HE THROWS IN THE WORLD CUP AND
POINTS TO THE ONE BIG BEAUTIFUL
BILL. ANNMARIE:
HE'S BASICALLY SAYING THE
SUBTEXT OF ALL OF THESE IS IT
IS AN ELECTION YEAR.
A MIDTERM ELECTION YEAR IN THE
WHITE HOUSE IS THROWING
EVERYTHING OF THE WALL TO TRY
TO GET COSTS DOWN,
AFFORDABILITY CONTINUING TO BE
NUMBER ONE WHEN IT COMES TO
POLLING.
ALSO IT COMES FROM TORSTEN SLOK
WHO IS THE WHITE HOUSE'S
FAVORITE ECONOMIST. HE SAID
TRUMP FOOLED US ALL WHEN IT
COMES TO THE TRADE TARIFF
NEGOTIATIONS.
WHEN IT COMES TO INFLATION, IT
HAS ONLY BEEN A ONE TIME PRICE
SHOCK. JONATHAN:
THAT IS THE LATEST FROM TORSTEN
SLOK OVER AT APOLLO.
FUTURES NEGATIVE ON THE S&P.
WITH AN UPDATE ON STORIES
WORLDWIDE, HERE IS VONNIE QUINN.
VONNIE:
BANK OF AMERICA RISING IN THE
PREMARKET AFTER ITS
FOURTH-QUARTER RESULTS BEAT
WALL STREET ESTIMATES.
THE BANK TOPPING EXPECTATIONS
ON INCOME AND INVESTMENT
BANKING REVENUE.
THE CEO BRIAN MOYNIHAN SAYING
HE IS BULLISH ON THE U.S.
ECONOMY IN 2026.
THE SUPREME COURT EXPECTED
RELEASE OPINIONS AT 10:00 A.M.
THIS MORNING AND WE ARE WAITING
FOR THE COURT TO RULE ON THE
LEGALITY OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
LIBERATION DAY TARIFFS.
THE JUSTICES WILL DECIDE OF
WHITE HOUSE BYPASSED CONGRESS
TO UNCONSTITUTIONALLY TAX TRADE.
PRESIDENT TRUMP CONTINUING TO
PUSH FOR U.S.
OWNERSHIP OF GREENLAND.
HE POSTED THIS MORNING THAT
NATO SHOULD BE LEADING THE WAY
FOR US TO GET GREENLAND.
IT COMES AHEAD OF A MEETING
BETWEEN TOP DIPLOMATS FROM
GREENLAND AND DENMARK AND
SECRETARY OF STATE MARCO RUBIO
AND JD VANCE IN WASHINGTON THIS
AFTERNOON.
THAT IS YOUR BLOOMBERG BRIEF.
JONATHAN: THANK YOU.
UP NEXT, BRACING FOR A TARIFF
DECISION.
>> YOU HAVE THE SUPREME COURT
THAT WILL RULE ON WHETHER OR
NOT WE CAN USE TARIFFS.
CAN YOU BELIEVE THIS?
I CASE BROUGHT ABOUT BY PEOPLE
THAT ARE CHINA-CENTRIC.
FOREIGN-CENTRIC.
WE WILL FIGURE SOMETHING OUT IF
WE DON'T WIN BUT WE SHOULD WIN.
JONATHAN:
THAT CONVERSATION UP NEXT WITH
KATE KALUTKIEWICZ.
FROM NEW YORK CITY, GOOD
MORNING. ♪
JONATHAN:
STOCKS ARE A LITTLE SOFTER FOR
A SECOND DAY.
ON THE NASDAQ 100, DOWN BY .6%.
BRACING FOR A TARIFF DECISION.
PRESIDENT TRUMP:
THE SUPREME COURT WILL RULE IF
WE CAN USE TARIFFS.
CAN YOU BELIEVE THIS?
I CASE BROUGHT ABOUT BY PEOPLE
THAT ARE CHINA-CENTRIC.
FOREIGN-CENTRIC.
I WOULD NOT WANT IT IF I WAS
CHINA EITHER.
CHINA IS ONE OF OUR BIGGEST
TAXPAYERS RIGHT NOW.
WE WILL FIGURE SOMETHING OUT IF
WE DON'T WIN BUT WE SHOULD WIN.
JONATHAN:
THE SUPREME COURT'S RULING
COULD COME AS EARLY AS TODAY.
TYLER KENDALL JOINS US FROM
WASHINGTON. IT TODAY THE DAY?
TYLER: IT MIGHT BE.
SOME ARE POINTING TO THE FACT
THAT THE COURT HAS ALREADY
ACTED IN AN EXPEDITED MANNER.
TODAY COULD BE THE DAY WE GET
THE DECISION, PLUS THE WHITE
HOUSE HAS ASKED THE JUSTICES TO
PRIORITIZE THIS, ARGUING THE
SITUATION IS JEOPARDIZING
FOREIGN POLICY AND ONGOING
TRADE NEGOTIATIONS, NOT TO
MENTION BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
TIED UP.
THE SUPREME COURT IS DECIDING
ON THE LEGALITY OF THE TARIFFS
IMPOSED UNDER IEEPA.
THEY HAVE TWO QUESTIONS IN
FRONT OF THEM.
DOES THE PRESIDENT HAVE THE
AUTHORITY TO INVOKE IEEPA TO
IMPOSE TARIFFS?
IT IS TYPICALLY USED FOR
SANCTIONS.
IF HE DOES, DID HE INVOKE IT
CORRECTLY?
WAS A NATIONAL EMERGENCY HE
DECLARED TO RECEIVE THE -- HE
CITED TRADE IMBALANCES.
THIS IS A COMPLICATED TARIFF
REFUND FIGHT.
AS A LAST MONTH THE
ADMINISTRATION RECORDED $133
BILLION TIED TO IEEPA TARIFFS.
OUR ANALYST SAY IF TARIFF
REFUNDS ARE ISSUED, IT COULD
JUST REPORTEDLY IMPACT APPAREL
AND TOY COMPANIES.
ONE THING IS FOR CLEAR.
NO MATTER HOW THE COURT RULES,
OFFICIALS SAY TARIFFS ARE HERE
TO STAY.
THEY COULD EVOKE MORE SECTION
232 TARIFFS OVER NATIONAL
SECURITY CONCERNS OR SECTION
301 OF HER UNFAIR TRADE
PRACTICES.
OFFICIALS LIKE TO SAY IEEPA
GIVES THEM THE MOST LIKABILITY.
JONATHAN:
TYLER KENDALL, THANK YOU.
KATE KALUTKIEWICZ WITH THIS TO
SAY.
"PRESIDENT TRUMP'S FOCUS WILL
LIKELY SHIFT OF GENERATING WINS
THROUGH STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
AND SECTOR SPECIFIC
INVESTIGATIONS."
THIS LINE FOR THE PRESIDENT,
"WE WILL FIGURE SOMETHING OUT
IF WE DON'T WIN."
WHAT THIS FIGURING SOMETHING
OUT LOOK LIKE? KATE:
WHAT IS CLEAR, INCLUDING THE
CLIP YOU PLAYED IS THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS NOT GOING TO
LET THESE TARIFFS GO.
IF THE SUPREME COURT RULES
AGAINST HIM AND HIS USAGE OF
IEEPA, HE HAS OTHER TARIFF
AUTHORITIES THAT YOU JUST
MENTIONED THAT HE CAN USE TO
OPPOSE THE TARIFFS BACK UP TO
THE SAME LEVELS AND HE SIGNALED
HIS INTENTION TO DO THAT ALMOST
MEDIALLY. ANNMARIE:
HOW WAS THE FENCE ABOUT PRICE
IS NOT A NATIONAL CRISIS?
-- FENTANYL CRISIS? KATE:
WE MAY WELL SEE A SPLIT
DECISION TODAY.
THE PRESIDENT HAS OPPOSED
TARIFFS FOR A NUMBER OF REASONS.
HE LIKES TO USE THEM FOR LOTS
OF REASONS, INCLUDING ISSUES
LIKE THE FENTANYL CRISIS, THE
ORDER CRISIS.
THAT IS WHERE THE FIRST IEEPA
WERE.
THE SUPREME COURT WOULD HAVE
THAT HAS RULED IN HIS FAVOR IN
THE PAST. WE MAY END UP WITH A
DECISION TODAY THAT RULES
AGAINST CERTAIN TARIFFS, THOSE
IMPOSED FOR TRADE DEFICITS AND
RETAIN FOR OTHER TARIFFS.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO TAKE SOME
TIME TO ANALYZE WHATEVER THE
SUPREME COURT PUTS OUT BEFORE
COMPANIES MAKE DECISIONS ABOUT
WHAT TO DO NEXT.
ANNMARIE:
LET'S LOOK AT THE ONCE A COULD
BE STRUCK DOWN TODAY.
DOES THE PRESIDENT GO BACK TO
THE NEGOTIATING TABLE WITH
COUNTRIES OR JUST TRY TO LOOK
AT THINGS THAT HAVE WITHHELD,
GOING AFTER SECTORS LIKE HE HAS
WITH AUTOS? KATE:
IT COULD BE A MIXTURE OF BOTH.
THE SECTOR TARIFFS LIKE AUTOS
AND STEEL AND ALUMINUM HAVE
PROVIDED DURABLE LEVERAGE FOR
THE PRESIDENT TO NEGOTIATE ON
TARIFFS.
THOSE TARIFFS ARE NOT UNDER
DISCUSSION AND NOT UNDER THREAT.
THEY REMAIN REALLY IMPORTANT
PIECES OF LEVERAGE FOR THE
PRESIDENT TO GO TO TRADING
PARTNERS AND SAY LET'S MAKE A
DEAL. IN FACT, THE AGREEMENTS HE
STRUCK WITH THE EUROPEAN UNION,
JAPAN, KOREA AND OTHERS HAVE
FOCUS REALLY MORE ON THE 232
TARIFFS THAT ON THE IEEPA
TARIFFS.
THOSE AGREED TO HIRE TARIFF
RATES ON THE GOODS TO THE
UNITED STATES.
I DON'T THINK THE SUPREME COURT
IS GOING TO IMPACT THAT
PARTICULAR SITUATION AT ALL.
ANNMARIE:
THERE'S AN EXIT -- THERE'S
ANOTHER SECTION, THREE THREE
THREE EIGHT, IS THAT HIS BLOOD
AS IEEPA?
COULD THAT HAVE LEGAL ISSUES ON
THE ROAD? KATE: IT COULD.
338 IS ONE.
THERE'S ANOTHER CALLED 122.
I THINK THEY ARE ABSOLUTELY ON
THE TABLE FOR THIS PLAN B
SCENARIO THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION HAS DESCRIBED.
BOTH DON'T HAVE PERHAPS THE
FLEXIBILITY IEEPA HAS, WHICH IS
WHY THE PRESIDENT PREFERS IEEPA.
THEY ARE ABSOLUTELY TOOLS THEY
COULD BE USED.
338 IS TIED TO TRADE
DISTURBANCES THAT HAPPENED AT
OTHER ECONOMIES.
YOU HAVE TO MAKE CASES.
I DO THINK THE PRESIDENT IS
WILLING TO USE THESE
AUTHORITIES THAT ARE UNTESTED.
I SUSPECT FOLKS ARE THINKING
ABOUT HOW TO CHALLENGE THEM IF
HE DOES IN FACT USE THEM.
JONATHAN:
WE HAVE BEEN OFFERED A LOT OF
JUSTIFICATIONS FOR THESE
TARIFFS.
WE HAVE SEEN THE GOVERNMENT
RAISE MONEY FOR THEM.
TO BRING MANUFACTURING BACK
HOME.
THE PRESIDENT HAS DONE A LOT TO
HIGHLIGHT THOSE PROBLEMS. THE
BIGGER ISSUE FOR THE GLOBAL
ECONOMY IS CHINA CHANGING ITS
ECONOMIC MODEL.
THIS RECORD TRADE SURPLUS WE
HAVE SEEN THROUGH 2025, EVEN
WITH THE MASSIVE DROP OFF IN
EXPORTS TO THE UNITED STATES,
WAYS OF PROVING SO DIFFICULT TO
GET CHINA TO CHANGE? KATE:
LOTS OF ECONOMIES LIKE CHEAP
GOODS.
THE PRESIDENT SAID REPEATEDLY
AND I THINK HE IS RIGHT THAT IF
WE ARE GOING TO CONFRONT
CHINESE POLICIES, IT HAS TO BE
DONE AS A GROUP OF LIKE-MINDED
COUNTRIES.
THIS IS WHY YOU SEE THE
PRESIDENT AND THE TRADE TEAM
ARTICULATING AN INITIATIVE IN
THE TRADE AGREEMENTS ON
SOMETHING THEY CALL ECONOMIC
SECURITY, WHICH IS USUALLY
POLICIES GEARED TOWARDS CHINA.
UNITED STATES UNDERSTANDS IT
CAN ONLY DO SO MUCH TO IMPACT
CHINA.
WE HAVE CUT OUR TRADE DEFICIT
WITH CHINA THROUGH THESE
ACTIONS BUT AS YOU POINT OUT
CHINA HAS HAD OTHER MARKETS TO
SEND GOODS TO.
UNLESS AND UNTIL OTHER
ECONOMIES JOINED THE UNITED
STATES IN IMPOSING POLICIES
DIRECTED AT CHINA, I THINK
CHINA WILL CONTINUE TO FIND
MARKETS. JONATHAN:
KATE, APPRECIATE IT.
KATE KALUTKIEWICZ.
A STRONG TAKE AT THE END THERE.
ANNMARIE:
CHINA WILL CONTINUE TO DUMP
WHEREVER THEY CAN.
THEY WILL FIND THIS MARKETS.
THERE HAS BEEN A MASSIVE DROP
OFF IN EXPORTS INTO THE UNITED
STATES. JONATHAN:
UP NEXT, STEPHEN KIM AS THE
HOUSING MARKET WAYS THE IMPACT
OF GOVERNMENT INTERVENTION. ♪
JONATHAN:
FACING DOWN THE PROSPECT OF
BACK-TO-BACK LOSSES ON THE S&P
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN THE NEW
YEAR.
EQUITY FUTURES NEGATIVE THROUGH
MUCH OF THIS MORNING SO FAR.
DOWN BY 131% ON THE S&P.
.5% ON THE NASDAQ.
-- ONE THIRD OF 1% ON THE S&P.
THE TREASURY MARKET IS IN REAL.
10-YEAR BOND YIELD GOING
ABSOLUTELY NOWHERE.
RANGE FOUND IN THE LAST SEVERAL
MONTHS. 5, 6, 7 TRADING RANGE.
4.15% ON TENS.
MORE DATA IN 60 MINUTES.
PPI AND RETAIL SALES.
WHERE YOU ARE SEEING NOISE, GUY
JOHNSON SAYING HOW TO PRICE THE
CRAZY. YOU DO IT IN METALS.
GOLD UP BY 1%.
RECORD HIGHS ACROSS THE BOARD.
ANNMARIE:
THE RECORDS WE SAW LAST YEAR,
ROLLED UP 65% AND SILVER UP
100%. THE BEST YEAR SINCE 1979.
THIS IS PART OF THE POTENTIAL
DEBASEMENT.
YOU SEE FACTORY ORDERS IN CHINA.
YOU SEE THE AI BUILDOUT IN THE
UNITED STATES COMING FROM A
PUSH FROM THE ADMINISTRATION
AND THE TECH COMPANIES.
YOU THINK THIS IS A PLACE TO
HIDE OUT, AS WELL AS
POTENTIALLY USED IN THE
PHYSICAL MARKET. JUST PILE IN.
JONATHAN:
WE COUNT YOU DOWN TO THE
OPENING DAY.
LET'S GET YOUR MORNING MOVERS
WITH YAHAIRA. YAHAIRA:
PLENTY TO GET THERE, INCLUDING
BANK EARNINGS.
BANK OF AMERICA SHARES UP .8%
AFTER IT BLEW PAST ESTIMATES
FOR NET INTEREST INCOME.
TRADING REVENUE ALSO COMING IN
STRONG.
BRIAN MOYNIHAN HE IS BULLISH ON
THE U.S.
ECONOMY, WHICH IS A MEANINGFUL
SIGNAL FROM A BANK SO CLOSELY
TIED TO EVERYDAY BORROWERS.
DIFFERENT STORY FOR WELLS FARGO.
SHARES ARE DOWN 1.8% AFTER IT
MISSED ON NET INTEREST INCOME.
THAT AND HIGHER SEVERANCE COSTS
LED TO A PROFIT MISS.
THIS IS A BANK THAT IS UNDER
TRANSITION AFTER THE FED LIFTED
ITS ASSET CAP LAST YEAR.
IT HAS BEEN A SLASHING
HEADCOUNT TO REFOCUS ON AREAS
LIKE INVESTMENT BANKING.
THAT IS LEADING TO SOME
NEAR-TERM PRESSURES.
NETFLIX WITH THE MEDIA SAGA NOT
OVER YET.
SHARES ARE UP 1.6% ON OUR
REPORTING IT IS WEIGHING MAKING
AN ALL CASH OFFER FOR WARNER
BROS.
DISCOVERY AS IT AIMS TO SPEED
UP A SALE AS THE SAGA HAS GROWN
INCREASINGLY CONTENTIOUS.
YOU HAVE PARAMOUNT SAYING IT
WAS SUING AND HE WAS PLANNING
TO NOMINATE DIRECTORS TO THE
BOARD. NETFLIX TRYING TO END IT.
JONATHAN: THANK YOU.
YAHAIRA NOTING DECENT NUMBERS
OUT OF BANK OF AMERICA.
THE MEDIA CALL UNDERWAY.
THESE QUESTIONS WERE GOING TO
COME UP ABOUT CREDIT CARDS AND
INTEREST RATES.
DANI, BANK OF AMERICA SEEMS TO
BE HANDLING THIS DIFFERENT THAN
JP MORGAN YESTERDAY. DANI:
THE POLAR OPPOSITE IN THEY
DON'T CLEARLY WANT TO COMMENT
ON IT.
THE CFO SPEAKING MOMENTS AGO.
IT WAS THE VERY FIRST QUESTION.
HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT THIS
PROPOSED OR ATTEMPTED
ENFORCEMENT OF A 10% CREDIT
CARD CAP FOR INTEREST RATES?
THE CFO SAYS WE ARE SUPPORTIVE
OF WHAT THE ADMINISTRATION IS
DOING AROUND AFFORDABILITY.
HE GOES TO THE BANK OF AMERICA
HISTORY, SAYING WE THINK -- WE
DO THINGS LIKE TRY TO LIMIT
OVERDRAFT FEES AND HAVE PRODUCT
SUITES. WE ARE STANDING BY THE
ADMINISTRATION TO HELP THEM,
BUT ON THIS SPECIFIC ISSUE OF
CREDIT CARD CAPS ON INTEREST
RATES THEY SAY IT IS FIRMLY IN
THE PUBLIC DEBATE ARENA.
THE ISSUES ARE WELL UNDERSTOOD
AND NOTHING MORE TO ADD.
CLEARLY STEPPING AWAY.
THE SECOND QUESTION WAS ON
POLITICS, SAYING ARE YOU READY
TO SUPPORT CLIENTS IN VENEZUELA
FOR VARIOUS OIL PROJECTS?
THE CFO ALSO DECIDES NOT TO
ENGAGE, SAYING OF COURSE WE ARE
WILLING TO DO WHATEVER IT TAKES
TO HELP OUR CLIENTS AROUND THE
WORLD.
IT IS TOO EARLY TO SAY ANYTHING
ON THIS.
THEY GOT A QUESTION FROM OUR
OWN PAUL DAVIES AROUND THE
HEALTH OF THE CONSUMER.
THE CFO VERY BULLISH ON THIS,
SAYING ALL METRICS TELL US THE
CONSUMER IS RESILIENT AND
REMAINS IN GREAT SHAPE.
NO SINCE THEY ARE BARRING MORE.
CHECKING ACCOUNTS ARE GROWING
OVER THE COURSE OF THE YEAR.
THEY ARE SPENDING WELL.
BULLISH ON THE CONSUMER AND
AFFORDABILITY BUT DECLINING TO
ENGAGE IN THE POLITICS.
JONATHAN: THANK YOU.
DANI BURGER WITH THE LATEST ON
BANK OF AMERICA.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
DISMISSING CRITICISM FROM THE
JP MORGAN CEO JAMIE DIMON ABOUT
THE PROBE INTO THE FEDERAL
RESERVE.
>> I THINK IT IS FINE WHAT I'M
DOING. WE HAVE A BAD FIT PERSON.
HE WAS EXTENDED BY BIDEN.
I THINK HE IS WRONG.
HE'S DONE A BAD JOB.
WE SHOULD HAVE LOWERED RATES.
JAMIE DIMON PROBABLY WANTS
HIGHER RATES. JONATHAN:
THE PRESIDENT FACING BACKLASH
OVER THE INVESTIGATION.
AMAZON LOOKING TO REDUCE WHAT
IT PAYS SUPPLIERS THAT HAVE A
POTENTIAL SUPREME COURT TARIFF
DECISION.
THE TECH CHINA'S MOVE INTO
REVERSE SOME OF THE MEASURES
USED TO EASE THE IMPACT OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S BUDDIES --
THE TECH GIANT.
THEY ARE MEETING WITH DIPLOMATS
FROM DENMARK AND GREENLAND AT
THE WHITE HOUSE TODAY TO
DISCUSS HE DEMANDS FOR THE
TERRITORY.
PRESIDENT TRUMP POSTING THIS
MORNING, "AMERICA NEEDS
GREENLAND FOR NATIONAL
SECURITY." ANNMARIE:
HE MAKES THE CASE THAT NATO
BECOMES MORE EFFECTIVE
AGREEMENT IS IN THE HANDS OF
THE UNITED STATES.
THE DANES ARE GOING TO SAY
THERE IS A TREATY DATING BACK
TO THE 1950'S THAT BASICALLY WE
GIVE YOU THE RIGHT TO COME IN
AND HAVE A DEFENSE POSTURE ON
GREENLAND.
THIS ALL FEELS WORTHLESS.
THEY NEED AN OFFRAMP TO KEEP
THE PRESIDENT AT BAY.
THE PRESIDENT HAS MADE THIS
POINT IN HIS FIRST TERM.
I IMAGINE THEY WOULD HAVE BEEN
EXPECTING THIS TO COME.
THEY CAN SAY THERE IS U.S.
MILITARY PRESENCE.
ADD-ON, BRING MORE TROOPS.
WE ARE HAPPY FOR YOU TO MAKE
THIS A FORTRESS.
THEY COULD DO SOMETHING THAT
UKRAINE DID, WHICH IS OFFER
MINERALS.
THE PRESIDENT IS KEENLY FOCUSED
ON MINERALS AND WE ARE EARTHS,
ESPECIALLY AS YOU SEE CHINA
PULLING BACK EXPORTS TO THE
UNITED STATES. JONATHAN:
HERE IS THE FOCUS ON THE
DOMESTIC STAGE.
PRESIDENT TRUMP RAMPING UP HIS
BIG PUSH.
>> IN THE COMING WEEKS I WILL
BE LAYING OUT EVEN MORE PLANS
TO HELP BRING BACK
AFFORDABILITY.
AS PART OF THE EFFORTS AT DAVOS
I'M GOING TO PROVIDE MUCH MORE
DETAILS ABOUT OUR HOUSING
POLICIES SO EVERY AMERICAN WHO
WANTS TO OWN A HOME WILL BE
ABLE TO AFFORD ONE.
THIS INCLUDES A BAN ON LARGE
INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS BUYING
OF SINGLE-FAMILY HOMES ALL OVER
THE COUNTRY AND MAKING IT
IMPOSSIBLE FOR PEOPLE TO BUY A
HOME. JONATHAN:
STEPHEN KIM WRITING, "THE
POTENTIAL WHERE IS GOVERNMENT
INTERVENTION WILL BRING
PRESSURE ON LARGE PUBLIC
BUILDERS TO INCREASE PRODUCTION
MORE THAN THEY OTHERWISE WOULD
TO THE DETRIMENT OF THEIR
MARGINS." GOOD MORNING.
THANK YOU FOR DROPPING BY.
IT'S AN IMPORTANT STORY FOR
AMERICANS, HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY.
CAN WE TALK ABOUT THE ISSUE?
WHERE DO YOU THINK THE PROBLEM
IS, ON THE DEMAND SIDE, ACCESS
TO CREDIT, BUILDING ENOUGH
HOMES? STEPHEN:
THERE ARE SOME OBVIOUS THINGS.
HOME PRICES RALLIED
DRAMATICALLY POST-PANDEMIC.
HE ALSO HAD MORTGAGE RATES
WHICH ALSO MORE THAN DOUBLED
AFTER THE PANDEMIC AS WELL.
YOU PUT THEM TOGETHER AND
THINGS ARE MUCH LESS AFFORDABLE
THAN THEY WERE IN RECENT MEMORY.
EVERYBODY UNDERSTANDS THAT.
THERE'S NOT A LOT THEY CAN DO
ABOUT HOME PRICES.
THEY DON'T REALLY WANT HOME
PRICES TO START GOING DOWN ANY
MEASURABLE WAY.
THEY COULD DO SOME THINGS IN
MORTGAGE RATES AND THEY HAVE
BEEN DOING SOME.
I'M SURE WE WILL TOUCH ON THAT.
TO YOUR QUESTION, REMEMBER THAT
HOMEBUYING IS NOT JUST MATH.
IT IS MENTAL.
IF YOU ARE WORRIED ABOUT YOUR
JOB, THE LAST THING YOU WILL DO
IS GO TO BUY A HOUSE.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE SURVEYS, THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE WORRIED ABOUT
THEIR JOB, LOSING THEIR JOB, IT
IS VERY HIGH LEVELS.
THAT'S ANOTHER IMPEDIMENT TO
AFFORDABILITY.
A LOT OF THE INSTABILITY PEOPLE
HAVE BEEN FEELING THAT IS ALSO
CAUSING THEM NOT TO BUY.
THAT IS NOT EASY FOR THE
GOVERNMENT TO FIX. ANNMARIE:
WHEN IT COMES TO THE LARGE
INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS, THEY
ARE LESS THAN 2% OF THE HOUSING
MARKET.
STEPHEN:
ONE OF THEM IS NOT HELPING AND
THE OTHER IS HELPING.
THE INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR
ANGLE IS SOMETHING I THINK IS
MORE OF A FICTION THAN A
REALITY. I WOULD SAY THAT IS NOT
SOMETHING YOU SHOULD THINK TOO
MUCH ABOUT. ANNMARIE:
PSYCHOLOGICALLY IT SOUNDS GOOD
TO THE EVERYDAY AMERICAN.
STEPHEN:
IT WILL NOT NECESSARILY MAKE AN
IMPACT BUT IT WILL HAVE A
SLIGHT DETRIMENTAL IMPACT OF
BUILDERS WHO WE ESTIMATE MAY BE
SELL ABOUT 5% OF THEIR STUFF TO
INVESTORS.
THAT IS PROBABLY NOT A GOOD
THING FOR THE BUILDERS AND THE
NOTHING BURGER FOR THE MARKET
AS A WHOLE.
THE MORTGAGE RATES IS A BIG
THING FOR EVERYBODY.
WE HAVE SEEN THE
MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITY
PURCHASES PUSHED DOWN
IMMEDIATELY AND THE SECURITY
SPREADS OVER TREASURIES BY 20
BASIS POINTS.
A BIG MOVE THAT BROUGHT
MORTGAGE RATES DOWN SLIGHTLY
BELOW 6% BRIEFLY.
THE PROBLEM IS OUR CONTACT
SUGGEST THAT WAS TOO BIG OF A
MOVE.
OTHER PEOPLE SAY IT IS NOT BIG
ENOUGH.
IT COULD BE 50 BASIS POINTS.
WE ARE NOT SO SURE.
200 BILLION DOLLARS SOUNDS LIKE
A LOT BUT IF THAT IS ALL YOU
GET AND THERE'S NOTHING AFTER
THAT, IT WILL NOT HAVE THAT BIG
OF AN IMPACT. ANNMARIE:
LAST YEAR IT WAS NORTH OF $230
BILLION.
BILL PULTE WAS ON AND HE SAID
EVERYTHING IS ON THE TABLE.
MAYBE THEY WOULD LIFT THE CAP.
STEPHEN:
THAT PROMPTED PEOPLE TO SAY
THIS COULD BE A BIG THING.
$200 BILLION IS JUST A STARTING
THING.
THEY HAVE $200 BILLION IN CASH
AND THAT IS WHERE THE CASH IS
COMING FROM.
LET'S SAY THEY DO ANOTHER $200
BILLION.
WHERE IS THAT MONEY COMING FROM?
YOU HAVE TO BORROW, PAY
INTEREST AND HEADS THAT RISK.
THAT'S EXPENSIVE.
YOU HAVE THE GSE'S COMING IN,
BIG BUYER BUT THEY ARE EXISTING.
YOU WILL SEE PROBABLY BUYERS
STEP BACK TO YOU COULD HAVE
MORE DISPLACEMENT THAN YOU
ACTUALLY HAVE NET ADDITION.
THAT'S WHY YOU MIGHT NOT SEE
THE SPREADS COME DOWN IS MUCH
AS PEOPLE HOPE. JONATHAN:
YOU ARE SYMPATHETIC TO THE
PROBLEM FOR INVESTORS NOW.
THE SECTOR HAS A TARGET ON IT.
HOW INVESTABLE IS IT WHEN YOU
GET WHIPSAWED FROM HEADLINE TO
HEADLINE EVERYDAY FOR THE YEAR
SO FAR? STEPHEN:
ANOTHER THING TO KEEP IN MIND
IS WHAT BILL PULTE SPOKE ABOUT
LAST NIGHT, THAT HE BELIEVES
THE BUILDERS SHOULD REFRAIN
FROM DOING SHARE REPURCHASES.
MUCH LIKE WHAT THEY DID ABOUT
THE DEFENSE STOCKS.
WHEN I SAW DEFENSE STOCKS --
THE THING FROM TRUMP ABOUT
DIRECTED TOWARDS THE DEFENSE
NAMES, YOU CAN TAKE THAT EXACT
DOCUMENT I JUST PUT
HOMEBUILDERS IN THERE AND
THAT'S BASICALLY WHAT I THINK
YOU WILL GET.
THE BUILDERS BOUGHT BACK 10% OF
THEIR SHARES ALMOST LAST YEAR.
THEY ARE BIG RE-PURCHASERS.
IT IS A NOXIOUS THING FOR THEM
TO WAKE UP AND READ ABOUT.
ANNMARIE:
IT'S AWKWARD THIS MIGHT HAPPEN
IN DAVOS.
HE WILL BE ADDRESSING PEOPLE
THAT PAY A MILLION DOLLARS TO
JOIN THIS FORUM THAT THE
PRESIDENT THINK THAT SOME
ELITIST GLOBALIST CABAL.
WHAT IS HE GOING TO SAY?
STEPHEN:
HE SORT IT TEASED THAT HE'S
GOING TO ANNOUNCE SOME OF THE
BIGGEST HOUSING REFORM THINGS
IN HISTORY.
THEY HAVE ALREADY -- I THINK
THEY COULD NOT QUITE CONTAIN
THEIR ENTHUSIASM.
THEY PUT OUT A COUPLE OF BIG
THINGS ALREADY.
THE NBS THING IS ACTUALLY A
PRETTY BIG THING.
WHAT THEY COULD POTENTIALLY DO
IS ANNOUNCE THEY WILL LOWER THE
FEES THAT FANNIE AND FREDDIE
CHARGE FOR THEIR SERVICES.
IT'S ABOUT 40 PACES MUCH HIGHER
THAN THE USED TO BE BUT DON'T
THINK YOU WILL GET 40 BASIS
POINTS.
THAT WOULD GET A TREMENDOUS
AMOUNT OF PUSHBACK.
I'M GUESSING YOU GET 10 BASIS
POINTS OUT OF THE GFP'S.
MAYBE FEDERAL LANDS.
MAYBE GREENLAND.
I DON'T HOW HELPFUL THAT WOULD
BE.
THEY CAN OPEN FEDERAL LANDS OR
HOMEBUILDING.
THERE IS SOME TAX CREDITS HE
COULD ANNOUNCE AND THAT WE GET
THE BIGGEST EXCITEMENT.
THAT REQUIRES CONGRESS TO SAY
YES. JONATHAN: GOOD TO SEE YOU.
PLENTY OF ISSUES TO START THE
YEAR. STEPHEN KIM ON THE HOUSING
MARKET.
LET'S CROSS OVER TO VONNIE
QUINN. VONNIE:
THE MAJORITY OF VENEZUELANS
WENT MARIA MACHADO TO RUN THE
COUNTRY.
A SURVEY FINDING WITHIN 51% SAY
SHE SHOULD TAKE OVER.
THE FINDINGS ARE CONTRADICTING
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S CLAIM THAT
THE OPPOSITION LEADER DOES NOT
HAVE THE COUNTRY'S SUPPORT.
SHE IS HEAD OF IS SAID TO VISIT
THE WHITE HOUSE TOMORROW.
ELON MUSK'S STARLINK SATELLITE
SERVICES OFFERING FREE ACCESS
IN A RUN AMID THE COUNTRY'S
DEADLY CRACKDOWN ON PROTESTS
AND DAYS LONG INTERNAL BLACKOUT
IMPOSED BY THE REGIME.
PAUL STARLINK RECEIVERS ARE
PROHIBITED IN THE COUNTRY, MANY
HAVE BEEN SMUGGLED ACROSS THE
NATION'S BORDERS.
SAKS IS FILING FOR BANKRUPTCY
TO POTENTIALLY FIND A BUYER.
THEY ARE NOTHING THEY ARE
REPLACING RICHARD BAKER WHO HAD
BEEN AT THE TOP ARE JUST TWO
WEEKS.
THAT IS A BLOOMBERG BRIEF.
JONATHAN: THANK YOU.
UP NEXT, THE CASE FOR LOWERING
INTEREST RATES.
>> AND THE OLD DAYS WHEN YOU
HAD GOOD NUMBERS, INTEREST
RATES WOULD GO DOWN.
WHEN YOU HAD GOOD NUMBERS THE
MARKET WOULD GO THROUGH THE
ROOF. OUR GROWTH POTENTIAL IS
UNLIMITED AND COULD BE MUCH
HIGHER. JONATHAN:
WE WILL TALK TO DAVID KELLY
ABOUT THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
CORPORATE CREDIT AND SOVEREIGN
DEBT IN A MOMENT.
FROM NEW YORK CITY, GOOD
MORNING. ♪
JONATHAN:
NUMBERS FROM CITIGROUP IN A
MOMENT.
WE WILL HEAR FROM THEM IN 13
MINUTES.
AFTER THAT, PPI AND U.S.
RETAIL SALES.
EQUITIES A BIT SOFTER, DOWN BY
ONE THIRD OF 1%.
WE ARE DOWN BY .5% ON THE
NASDAQ.
UNDER SURVEILLANCE, THE CASE
FOR LOWERING INTEREST RATES.
>> IN THE OLD DAYS WHEN YOU HAD
GOOD NUMBERS, INTEREST RATES
WOULD GO DOWN.
WHEN YOU HAD GOOD NUMBERS, THE
MARKET WOULD GO THROUGH THE
ROOF. OUR GROWTH POTENTIAL IS
UNLIMITED AND COULD BE MUCH
HIGHER IF WE WENT BACK TO
SANITY.
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE THE
FED.
I WANT SOMEBODY THAT WHEN THE
MARKET IS DOING GREAT INTEREST
RATES CAN GO DOWN, BECAUSE OUR
COUNTRY BECOME STRONGER.
JONATHAN:
THE PRESIDENT TOUTING HIS
ECONOMIC A WHILE CONTINUING TO
MAKE THE CASE FOR LOWER
INTEREST RATES.
DAVID KELLY WRITING, "WE EXPECT
THE FED TO TAKE HIS TIME,
LIMITING FURTHER RATE CUTS WITH
TWO IN TOTAL FOR 2026 AND A
FURTHER CUT IN 2027.
WE THINK THIS'LL BE THE CASE
EVEN WITH NEW FED LEADERSHIP."
WE CAN TALK ABOUT THE RATE CUTS
BUT LET'S START WITH THE
ECONOMY.
WHAT IS THE OUTLOOK FOR 2026
FOR YOU AND YOUR TEAM? DAVID:
PRETTY SOLID.
WE WILL HAVE INCOME TAX REFUNDS
FLOODING IN OVER THE FIRST HALF
OF THE YEAR.
I THINK WE POSSIBLY WILL GET A
TARIFF REBATE CHECK TO KEEP THE
ECONOMY STOPED IN THE THIRD
QUARTER.
WE ARE LOOKING FOR THE FIRST
THREE QUARTERS OF THE YOU TO BE
CLOSE TO 3% GROWTH.
BY THE FOURTH QUARTER I THINK
THINGS FADE.
IF DEMOCRATS TAKE OVER THE
HOUSE YOU HAVE A DIVIDED
GOVERNMENT AND YOU HAVE --
ABOUT 2% GROWTH.
MAYBE 2.5% GROWTH FOR 2026.
SLIPPING DOWN TO ABOUT 1.5%
GROWTH FOR 2027. JONATHAN:
LET'S WORK WITH SOME STRONG
NUMBERS.
LET'S SAY THINGS ARE GREAT AND
SOLID ECONOMIC GROWTH.
TYPICALLY THAT IS ON A BACKED
UP WITH THE FEDERAL RESERVE IS
CUTTING INTEREST RATES.
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF THE
PRESIDENT WHEN HE SAID WHEN THE
NUMBERS WERE GOOD, INTEREST
RATES WERE LOWER?
WHAT IS HE GETTING AT? DAVID:
YOU HAVE GOOD NUMBERS ON
INFLATION AND GROWTH.
THOSE THINGS HAVE OPPOSITE
EFFECTS ON INTEREST RATES.
GETTING BACK TO YOUR DISCUSSION
WITH YOUR GUEST ON
AFFORDABILITY, WHY DO WE HAVE
AN AFFORDABILITY PROBLEM?
IT IS NOT BECAUSE MORTGAGE
RATES ARE TOO HIGH.
THEY WERE WAY TOO LOW IN THE
DECADE AFTER THE GREAT
FINANCIAL CRISIS.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE LAST FEW
YEARS OF THE 20 TEENS, WE HAD
SUPER LOW MORTGAGE RATES.
IT CAUSED HOME PRICES TO
SKYROCKET. BET IS THE PROBLEM.
WHEN YOU GET BACK TO NORMAL
RATES -- THESE ARE JUST NORMAL
MORTGAGE RATES WE HAVE TODAY.
THERE'S NOTHING UNUSUAL OR
INAPPROPRIATE ABOUT THEM.
THE PROBLEM IS THE AVERAGE
PERSON CANNOT AFFORD TO BUY THE
REALLY EXPENSIVE HOMES EVEN
WITH AVERAGE MORTGAGE RATES.
THE PROBLEM IS NOT THE MORTGAGE
RATES.
IT IS WHERE THEY WERE BEFORE
AND WHAT THEY DID TO HOME
PRICES. ANNMARIE:
THE PRESIDENT TALKED ABOUT THE
OLD DAYS.
ARE YOU SAYING WHAT HE IS
TALKING ABOUT IS PRE-THE GREAT
FINANCIAL CRISIS? DAVID:
I WILL DODGE WHAT HE MEANS BY
GOOD NUMBERS.
I WILL NOT TRY TO PARSE THAT
TOO MUCH.
WHAT WE KNOW IS THAT INTEREST
RATES TODAY ARE NOT
PARTICULARLY HIGH.
IF YOU GET SUPER LOW INFLATION
AND SUPER LOW INFLATION AND THE
ECONOMY GOES INTO RECESSION,
INTEREST RATES MIGHT COME DOWN
A LITTLE BIT.
WE ARE OBSESSED WITH GETTING
RATES DOWN TO AN APPROPRIATELY
LOW LEVEL AND THAT CAUSES ASSET
BUBBLES.
WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT WHAT IS A
CURSE TO THE ECONOMY, IT'S BEEN
ASSET BUBBLES.
LET'S TRY TO AVOID THAT.
ANNMARIE:
YOU THINK WE WILL HAVE TWO CUTS
THIS YEAR? DAVID:
YES, JUST ABOUT.
IT IS A CLOSE CALL.
THE FED COULD GIVE US ONE CUT
IN THE FIRST HALF OF THE YEAR.
WE WILL HAVE TO SEE HOW THAT
PLAYS OUT.
THE DECISION BY THE SUPREME
COURT ON TARIFFS IS QUITE
IMPORTANT FOR THAT.
IF THE OVERALL LEVEL COMES
DOWN, THAT SHOULD TAKE SOME
PRESSURE OFF INFLATION AND
MIGHT ALLOW THE FED TO CUT
RATES ONCE IN THE FIRST HALF OF
THE YEAR IN THE RIGHT AT THE
END OF THE YEAR I THINK YOU
COULD GET ANOTHER CUT IN
DECEMBER IF INFLATION COMES
BACK DOWN TO 2% WHICH WE THINK
IT COULD BY THE END OF THIS
YEAR.
IF THAT PLAYS OUT, YOU MIGHT
GET TWO RATE CUTS THIS YEAR.
THE FED IS IN NO HURRY TO CUT
RATES.
WHATEVER THE PRESIDENT DOES IN
TERMS OF APPOINTING A NEW FED
CHAIR, THE FED WILL BE IN A
HURRY TO CUT RATES. JONATHAN:
THE GROWTH PROFILE IS DECENT
GROWTH FOR THIS YEAR AND IS
SLOW DOWN INTO 2027.
EQUITIES HAVE BEEN PRICED FOR
THAT BETTER GROWTH PROFILE FOR
THIS YEAR.
THE MARKET HAS BEEN FOCUSED ON
2026 AND BETTER GROWTH FOR
QUITE A WHILE.
WHEN IS IT PICK UP ON YOUR
STORY, THE NEXT LEG OF THINGS,
THE DECELERATION INTO 2027?
DAVID:
THIS IS A MARKET THAT IS HARD
TO DEPRESS.
OVER THE YEARS BECAUSE OF
EMBEDDED CAPITAL GAINS AND THE
MONEY POURING IN FROM
401(K)S AND STOCK BUYBACKS, YOU
HAVE IS HUGE -- YOU HAVE A HUGE
SURGE IN DEMAND FOR EQUITIES
AND NOT A LOT OF MONEY COMING
OUT OF THE MARKET.
I DON'T REALLY THINK IT'S A
MACRO OUTLOOK THAT IS THE
GREATEST RISK TO THE MARKET.
THE GREATEST ECONOMIC AND
FINANCIAL RISK IS THAT
SOMETHING GOES WRONG WITH THE
AI HYPERSCALER STORY.
A LOT OF MARKET ENTHUSIASM IS
CENTERED AROUND THAT.
FOR THE MOMENT I DON'T THINK
THE MACRO NUMBERS WILL SHAKE
THE EQUITY MARKET. JONATHAN:
SOMETHING DID CHANGE WITH THE
MARKET REACTION FUNCTION WITH
REGARDS TO THE AI TECH STORY
WHEN WE GOT NUMBERS AT
INCREASED SPENDING IN THE STOCK
MARKET STARTED TO PUSH BACK.
HOW DO YOU THINK THE MARKET
WILL APPROACH INVESTORS -- THE
MARKET AND INVESTORS WILL
APPROACH A EARNINGS SEASON AND
EXPOSURE TO THIS THEME? DAVID:
THEY WILL WANT TO MAKE SURE
COMPANIES CAN AFFORD TO DO THIS
BECAUSE THERE ARE QUESTIONS
ABOUT GOING A FEW YEARS DOWN
THE ROAD, ARE ALL THESE
COMPANIES -- I WILL NOT MENTION
INDIVIDUAL NAMES -- ARE THEY
ALL SOLVENT?
CLICK CANNOT BE THAT MANY
WINNERS IN THE AI STORY.
YOU HAVE FIVE OR EVEN
DOMESTICALLY FIVE BIG COMPANIES
TRYING TO CHASE AFTER GENITIVE
AI. THEY CAN'T ALL WIN.
THERE'S A QUESTION ABOUT DO
SOME OF THEM GET INTO TOO MUCH
DEBT. I THINK THE MARKET WILL BE
FOCUSED ON THAT STORY AND THE
CIRCULARITY IN TERMS OF
EVERYBODY'S CAPITAL SPENDING IN
THE TECH SECTOR IS SOMEBODY
ELSE'S REVENUE.
YOU CAN DEPRECIATE THE CAPITAL
SPEND.
THE REVENUE IS STRAIGHT TO THE
BOTTOM LINE.
THIS HUGE FLURRY IS INFLATING
PROFITS IN THE TECH SECTOR AND
I THINK PEOPLE ARE AWARE THAT.
JONATHAN:
IS AT AN ISSUE FOR 2026 OR
FURTHER OUT? DAVID:
IT'S MORE OF AN ISSUE FURTHER
OUT. WHAT ARE THE BIGGEST
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN NOW AND THE
DOT-COM BUBBLE IS YOU DO HAVE
MASSIVE CASH FLOW FROM THE
HYPERSCALERS WHICH CAN KEEP THE
PARTY GOING EVEN IF PEOPLE HAVE
SOME DOUBTS ABOUT THE LONG-TERM
VIABILITY OF THE PARTY.
THERE'S ENOUGH CASH TO KEEP IT
GOING WHICH WAS NOT THE CASE IN
THE DOT-COM BUBBLE. JONATHAN:
DAVID, APPRECIATE YOUR TIME.
DAVID KELLY OF J.P.
MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT ON THE
FUTURE OF THE ECONOMY AND WHAT
IS GOING TO HAPPEN WITH AI.
HE WOULD NOT NAME ANY COMPANIES
BUT A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE FOCUSED
ON THE FUNDING NEEDS OF ONE
COMPANY, OPENAI, AND WHETHER WE
GET PUSHBACK FOR THE YEAR AHEAD.
ANNMARIE:
THAT IS THE LITMUS TEST FOR
THIS ENTIRE TRADE AND ENTIRE
MARKET. OPENAI.
HOW OVER THAT IPO BE RECEIVED.
THEY HAVE A LOT OF CASH.
THE PRESIDENT IS BASICALLY
SAYING THESE COMPANY'S MIGHT
HAVE TO SUBSIDIZE AMERICAN
CONSUMERS' ELECTRICITY
BILLS.
THIS IS POPULIST IDEAS GOING TO
THE MIDTERM ELECTION BUT IF YOU
ARE A TECH COMPANY, YOU HAVE TO
THINK ABOUT THAT. JONATHAN:
THE PRESIDENT HAS A CURIOUS
TAKE.
HE BELIEVES THAT IF THE ECONOMY
IS DOING BETTER, WE SHOULD BE
BORROWING AT LOWER INTEREST
RATES.
FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE THAT FOLLOW
SOVEREIGN DEBT MARKETS THAT IS
NOT HOW THINGS WORK.
THAT IS HOW CORPORATE DEBT
SECURITIES WOULD WORK.
IF THE PROFITS ARE GOOD, YOUR
BORROWING COSTS WILL BE LOWER.
THE TREASURY MARKET DOES NOT
WORK LIKE THAT AND THE FEDERAL
RESERVE CERTAINLY DOES NOT WORK
LIKE THAT EITHER.
THIS SET YOU UP FOR MORE
ATTENTION FURTHER DOWN THE ROAD.
FOR AN INDIVIDUAL HOLDING
INTERVIEWS IN THE LAST MONTH, I
WOULD LOVE SOME INSIGHT ON
THESE POTENTIAL FOR CANDIDATES
AS THE INTERVIEWS CONTINUE.
ANNMARIE:
MAYBE WE CAN GET SOME INSIGHT.
RICK RIEDER, A FREQUENT GUEST
ON BLOOMBERG IS HAVING HIS
INTERVIEW SUPPOSEDLY TOMORROW
WITH THE PRESIDENT.
HE'S THE LAST ONE TO HAVE THE
INTERVIEW.
MAYBE HE CAN SHARE INSIGHT ON
THE QUESTIONS BEING ASKED.
NUMBER ONE IS WILL YOU CUT
RATES. JONATHAN:
BEST OF LUCK TO HIM FOR THE
NEXT 25 HOURS.
UP NEXT, WE WILL CATCH UP WITH
ALTY ALTMANN, SARAH HOUSE AND
DAVID RUBENSTEIN OF CARLISLE. ♪
>> THE NEXT A BULLISH CATALYST
TO THE EARNINGS SEASON.
>> EARNINGS EXPECTATIONS FOR
Q4, THE BAR IS LOW.
>> THIS IS A MOMENT OF PAUSE.
MAYBE 2026 WILL NOT BE AS
SMOOTH AS A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE
ANTICIPATING.
>> THERE IS STILL ROOM TO RUN
HERE.
>> THIS IS "BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE"
WITH JONATHAN FERRO, LISA
ABRAMOWICZ, AND ANNMARIE
HORDERN. JONATHAN:
LIVE FROM NEW YORK CITY.
GOOD MORNING. GOOD MORNING.
THE THIRD HOUR OF "BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE" STARTS RIGHT NOW.
EQUITY FUTURES PULLING BACK
50.4% ON THE S&P 500.
DOWN BY 0.5 ON THE NASDAQ 100.
EARNINGS FROM CITI ANY MOMENT
NOW.
THEN WE GET DATA, PPI, RETAIL
SALES.
LISA IS SITTING DOWN WITH ED
BASTIAN.
10:00 EASTERN, WE MAKE GET A
RULING ON THOSE LIBERATION DAY
TARIFFS. ANNMARIE:
THAT WILL BE HUGE FOR THIS
ADMINISTRATION BECAUSE THEY
BASICALLY NEED TO WORK ABOUT
75% OF THE TARIFF DEALS WITH
THIS ADMINISTRATION OR
POTENTIALLY THE FENTANYL
TARIFFS THEY HAVE PUT ON OTHER
COUNTRIES, THAT WILL BE
INTERESTING.
THE TIMING OF THIS, THE
PRESIDENT IS GOING TO DAVOS,
SEEING THESE COUNTRIES.
IF HE IS REWORKING THIS, THAT
WILL TAKE UP A LOT OF TIME AND
SPACE FOR THE REST OF HIS
CABINET.
HE SAID YESTERDAY WE HAVE OTHER
WAYS.
TARIFFS IS HIS FAVORITE WORD.
JONATHAN:
THE NUMBERS FROM CITI JUST
DROPPING.
STOCKS FALLING AS TRADERS WAIT
THE LATEST BANK EARNINGS.
THE DELTA CEO CATCHING UP WITH
LISA AFTER THAT UNDERWHELMING
OUTLOOK YESTERDAY.
SARAH HOUSE BREAKING DOWN THE
LATEST DATA.
CITI EARNINGS CROSSING A MOMENT
AGO. DANI HAS THE HEADLINES.
DANI:
FOURTH-QUARTER FIXED SALES AND
TRADING REVENUE IS A BEAT.
THAT COMES IN AT 3.40 $6
BILLION, THE ESTIMATE WAS FOR
$3.29 BILLION.
EQUITY SALES AND TREATING COMES
IN LIGHT. JUST OVER $1 BILLION.
THE ESTIMATE WAS FOR $1.1
BILLION.
WE HAD A WARNING FROM THE CFO,
ONLY A FEW MONTHS AGO, THAT THE
MARKETS REVENUE WOULD BE IN THE
LOW TO MID SINGLE DIGITS.
MAYBE NOT A SURPRISE THAT YOU
HAVE SOME WEAKNESS THERE.
IT LOOKS LIKE INVESTMENT
BANKING IS SOMEWHAT STRONG,
$1.27 BILLION.
AGGRESSIVE GROWTH THAT CITI IS
AIMING FOR IN THE FOURTH
QUARTER.
JP MORGAN WAS UP BY 6%, SO
PERHAPS A TURNAROUND, HIS
SUGGESTION THAT THE HIRE IS
WORKING FOR CITI.
SOME OF THESE OTHER METRICS
COMING IN A LITTLE BIT WEAKER,
BUT JANE FRASER SAYING WE
ENTERED 2026 WITH VISIBLE
MOMENTUM ACROSS THE FIRM,
COMMITTING TO A RETURN ON
EQUITY OF 10% TO 11%.
TOTAL COST OF CREDIT IS 2.2
BILLION DOLLARS, LIGHTER THAN
ESTIMATES OF $2.5 BILLION.
LET'S ADD IN THIS GROUP FROM
BLOOMBERG, LETTING GO OF
THOUSAND PEOPLE THIS WEEK.
IN ORDER FOR CITI TO L HIT ITS
TARGET, IT WOULD NEED TO LET
MORE FOLKS GO TO GET ITS
HEADCOUNT TARGETS.
IT IS LOOKING MIXED.
MAYBE THAT IS WHY WE ARE SEEING
THE MARKET REACTION.
AT THE MOMENT UNCHANGED.
BUT THEY ARE SEEING A LOWER
LEVEL OF SEVERANCE IN 2026, SO
MAYBE THE IMPLEMENT PICTURE
WILL START TO NORMALIZE.
JONATHAN:
SIMILAR TO JP MORGAN YESTERDAY,
POCKETS OF WEAKNESS, POCKETS OF
STRENGTH AGAINST A RELATIVELY
HIGH BAR.
THEN WE GET TO THE CALL.
THE MEDIA GETS ON THE CALL,
THEY SKIP PAST THE NUMBERS AND
GO STRAIGHT TO THE POLICY AND
POLITICS.
WHAT ARE WE HERE AND ELSEWHERE?
DANI:
BANK OF AMERICA DECLINED TO
COMMENT.
THE WELLS FARGO CEO SAID THAT
THE CURRENT PROPOSAL WOULD
AFFECT A WIDE SPECTRUM OF
PEOPLE, WOULD HAVE A NEGATIVE
IMPACT FROM THE THREAT OF THAT.
JUST TO BE CLEAR, AS WE HAD
WITH JP MORGAN, AS WE HAD WITH
BANK OF AMERICA, THEY ARE AT
PAINS TO BEGIN THE ANSWER BY
SAYING WE SUPPORT THE
AFFORDABILITY PUSH.
THE CFO SAYING FAMILIES ACROSS
THE COUNTRY HAVING HAVING
ISSUES WITH THE PORTABILITY FOR
SOME TIME AND WE THINK ABOUT
DIFFERENT SOLUTIONS TO COMBAT
THE PROBLEM.
HE GOES ON TO SAY, IT WOULD
HAVE A SIGNIFICANT NEGATIVE
IMPACT FOR CREDIT AVAILABILITY
FOR A WIDE SPECTRUM OF PEOPLE
AND A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON
ECONOMIC GROWTH, NEGATIVE
IMPACT ON THE INDUSTRY, TOO.
AS EXPECTED, THE COMMENTS ARE
NOT POSITIVE. JONATHAN:
THANK YOU.
LOOK OUT FOR DANI ALONGSIDE
MATT MILLER.
RULE NUMBER ONE OF BANKING,
NEVER UPSET THE PERSON WITH
THEIR FINGER ON THE REGULATIONS.
ANNMARIE:
I CANNOT WAIT TO SEE WHAT CITI
HAS TO SAY ABOUT CREDIT CARDS.
REPRESENTING 23% OF LOANS.
CAN THEY EVEN MAKE MONEY IF
THERE CAP IS UNDER 10%?
JONATHAN:
GOLDMAN REPORTING TOMORROW,
DOWN 0.4 PERCENT.
WE WILL HEAR FROM THEM IN
MORGAN STANLEY.
ALEX ALTMANN OF BARCLAYS
WRITING, INVESTORS WILL HAVE TO
NAVIGATE THE NOISE, UPCOMING Q4
EARNINGS, AND TRY TO DEPLOY
CAPITAL INTO THEMES THAT SHOULD
BE AGNOSTIC INTO THE WHIP SONG
HEADLINES. EXCITED ABOUT THIS.
TELL ME HOW TO DO THAT. ALEX:
KEEP IT REALLY SIMPLE, AS
SIMPLE AS POSSIBLE.
THEMATICALLY, AS FAR AS WE AS A
TEAM ARE CONCERNED, THERE IS
ONE OBVIOUS THEME WHICH YOU CAN
DEPLOY IN A LOT OF WAYS, THE
U.S.-CHINA DECOUPLING.
IT'S THAT SIMPLE.
THAT WILL BE HUMMING IN THE
BACKGROUND.
AT THE CENTER OF THAT, YOU'VE
GOT TOPICS LIKE DEFENSE,
COMMODITIES, SECURITY, U.S.
HEGEMONY.
WE ARE FOCUSED ON THE COMMODITY
ANGLE.
WE THINK THIS IS ONE OF THE
MOST INTERESTING THEMES I'VE
SEEN. JONATHAN:
WE ARE SEEING METALS THIS
MORNING.
NOT JUST PRECIOUS METALS BUT
YOU ARE SEEING IT IN COPPER,
TIN. ALEX:
WE HAVE SEEN A PRECIOUS METAL
RALLY HAVING TO DO WITH
DEBASEMENT.
INDUSTRIAL METALS OR SOMETHING
THAT WE PIVOTED QUITE HARD TO
IN THE FOURTH QUARTER LAST YEAR
BECAUSE OF THE DECOUPLING. U.S.
AND CHINA USED TO BE
CODEPENDENT ON ONE ANOTHER,
STILL ON A LOT OF RESOURCES.
IF WE ARE MOVING TO DECOUPLING,
WE HAVE EFFECTIVELY GOT TWO
YEARS FOR THESE COUNTRIES TO
SECURE AS MUCH RESOURCE AS
POSSIBLE, NOT JUST PHYSICAL
DEMAND BUT LINE OF SIGHT ON
FUTURE SUPPLY.
WHAT IS REALLY IMPORTANT ABOUT
THAT, THE U.S.
IS RELYING ON OVER 50% IMPORTS
OF METALS.
NOT JUST RARE EARTH, COPPER,
ELECTORAL SYSTEMS, ALUMINUM,
EVERYTHING. ANNMARIE:
COULD WE SEE MORE NOISE WHEN IT
COMES TO GEOPOLITICS?
THE PRESIDENT CAPTURED MADURO,
NOW TALKING ABOUT GREENLAND.
ALEX:
LET'S NOT EXCLUDE UKRAINE AS
WELL, MASSIVE MINERALS.
A LOT OF THE FOREIGN POLICY
DECISIONS ARE BEING DRIVEN BY
THOSE TWO FACTORS, DEFENSE AND
COMMODITY SECURITY. ANNMARIE:
DOES THIS HAVE TO DO WITH THE
AI TRADE, BUILDING OUT DATA
CENTERS OR TO INCREASE THE
AVAILABILITY OF THESE METALS
AND MINERALS FOR OUR MILITARY?
ALEX: IT IS BOTH OF THOSE.
IF YOU WANT TO BUILD
INFRASTRUCTURE, ROADS AND
BRIDGES, ELECTRIFICATION OF THE
GRID, MODERNIZE YOUR ECONOMY,
YOU NEED ACCESS TO CRITICAL
MINERALS AND METALS.
PEOPLE TALK ABOUT THE AI
NARRATIVE.
IT'S AN IMPORTANT INCREMENTAL
DEMAND FOR COPPER, BUT WE ARE
TALKING ABOUT 5% COMING FROM
DATA CENTERS.
CHINA IS ACCOUNTING FOR 60% OF
GLOBAL COPPER DEMAND. JONATHAN:
SOME OF THOSE METALS ARE
ALREADY TRADING AT ALL-TIME
HIGHS, GOLD, SILVER, COPPER.
RECORD HIGHS IN THE BANKING
SECTOR AS WELL.
WE HAVE SEEN SOME PUSHBACK FROM
EARNINGS SEASON.
I WONDER IF YOU ARE TAKING ANY
EARLY INDICATORS FROM THE WAY
THE STOCK HAS BEHAVED IN THE
WAY WE HAVE SEEN THEM IN THE
PAST THREE OR FOUR HOURS.
FINANCIALS. ALEX:
YOU HAVE THIS NOISE AROUND THE
CREDIT CARD DATA, WHICH YOU
HAVE ALREADY COVERED.
YOU ALSO HAVE TO CONSIDER THERE
ARE STILL QUESTIONS ABOUT WHAT
WILL HAPPEN IN THE ECM WORLD IN
2026, ALSO QUESTIONS AROUND THE
STATE OF THE CONSUMER.
PEOPLE THINK IT WILL BE A
ROBUST BACKDROP, BUT WE ARE
STILL IN THE K-SHAPED RECOVERY.
A LARGE NUMBER OF CONSUMERS
THAT ARE NOT IN GOOD SHAPE AND
WE HAVE TO CONSIDER THOSE.
JONATHAN:
DOES IT MAKE IT EASIER TO TRADE
SMALL CAPS, TO BE INVESTED IN
SMALL CAPS BECAUSE THEY ARE NOT
A TARGET OF THE HEADLINES TO
START THE NEW YEAR? ALEX:
WE HAVE BEEN VERY BULLISH ON
SMALL CAPS SINCE JULY OF LAST
YEAR.
WE ARE BEGINNING TO TEMPER THAT
ENTHUSIASM NOW. JONATHAN:
WHAT HAS CHANGED? ALEX:
POSITIONING WAS A BIG DRIVER OF
OUR REVIEW.
NOW THAT HAS MOVED TO A NET
LONG.
ONE OF THE BIG BENEFICIARIES OF
SMALL CAPS RIGHT NOW IS THE
COMBINATION OF THE OBBB AND AI
BENEFICIARIES, COMPANIES
STARTED TO GET THE BENEFITS OF
AI PRODUCTS.
THERE IS A POSITIVE SMALL-CAP
STORY BUT FROM THE DYNAMIC
PERSPECTIVE, WE HAVE TO RESPECT
THAT IT HAS CHANGED. JONATHAN:
DID SOMETHING QUICK AND IN THE
LAST SEVERAL MONTHS, AWAY FROM
THE FEDERAL RESERVE STORY?
THE FACT THAT WE HAD SMALL CAPS
RALLY AS HARD AS THEY DID, EVEN
THOUGH THE RATE CUTTING CYCLE
IS NOW STALLED. ALEX:
I WOULD SAY THERE IS A TARIFF
TEMPERAMENT AT PLAY IN SMALL
CAPS.
WE WILL GET THE ANNOUNCEMENT
FROM THE SUPREME COURT ANY DAY
NOW.
THAT DECISION WILL ALSO PLOT
THE PATH FOR SMALL CAPS.
JONATHAN: IS THAT A STORY?
ANNMARIE HAS ASKED THE QUESTION
CONTINUOUSLY.
BASICALLY, IT GOES, BUT WILL
HAPPENED IS THEY WILL FIND
ANOTHER WAY AND IT WILL NOT
CHANGE ANYTHING. ALEX:
THE QUESTION IS NOT ABOUT
WHETHER IT IS A MARKET DYNAMIC
OR NOT, THE QUESTION IS DOES
THE PRESIDENT WANT TO USE HIS
IEEPA SCOTUS RULING IN A YEAR
WHERE HE REALLY WANTS TO WIN
THE MIDTERMS?
A LOT OF THE POLICY
ANNOUNCEMENTS THAT HAVE COME
THROUGH FROM HIM OVER THE PAST
WEEK HAVE BEEN ABOUT
AFFORDABILITY AND HELPING THE
MIDDLE CLASS, SO IT A TARIFF
ROLLBACK -- AND WE HAVE SEEN
SOME OF THAT IN FURNITURE,
KITCHEN CABINETRY -- IS THIS
ALL PART OF A ONE-YEAR HIATUS
IN ORDER TO IMPROVE THE
AFFORDABILITY DYNAMIC OF
AMERICANS AND THEN KICK THE
TARIFF NARRATIVE BACK IN?
THAT IS NOT MY VIEW. ANNMARIE:
SO BLAME THE SUPREME COURT?
ALEX:
I THINK THE PRESIDENT LIKES
TARIFFS, LIKES USING IT AS
LEVERAGE IN FOREIGN POLICY.
HOWEVER, THERE IS STILL A
NARRATIVE THAT THERE IS AN
OFFER THAT COULD PRESENT ITSELF.
JONATHAN: A LOT TO THINK ABOUT.
ALEX ALTMANN OF BARCLAYS.
LET'S GET AN UPDATE ON STORIES
ELSEWHERE.
LET'S CROSS OVER TO VONNIE
QUINN. VONNIE: CITI OUT WITH ITS
FOURTH-QUARTER RESULTS, SALES
AND TRADING REVENUE BEATING
ESTIMATES.
JANE FRASER IS SAYING THE BANK
IS ENTERING 2026 WITH VISIBLE
MOMENTUM ACROSS THE FIRM AND
COMMITTING TO A 10% TO 11%
RETURN ON EQUITY.
ROBOTICS STARTUP SKILD AI
RAISING OVER A BILLION DOLLARS
FROM INVESTORS.
THEIR VALUATION IS MORE THAN
TRIPLED IN THE LAST SEVEN
MONTHS.
AIRBNB IS SET TO LAUNCH AN AI
SEARCH THIS YEAR AS IT LEANS
MORE INTO AI FOR CUSTOMER
RECOMMENDATIONS.
THIS AS THE COMPANY HIRED THE
FORMER META HAD EAD OF GEN AI.
THEY SAY WE ARE GOING TO BUILD
A GREAT DESIGN SENSIBILITY INTO
THE EXPERIENCE OF AIRBNB.
JONATHAN:
NEXT, THE MORNING CALLS, PLUS
LISA IS SITTING DOWN WITH THE
DELTA CEO ED BASTIAN.
THAT CONVERSATION COME UP NEXT.
>> THIS IS A MARKET THAT IS
VERY HARD TO DEPRESS.
MONEY POURING IN FROM 401(K)S,
STOCK BUYBACKS.
YOU HAVE A HUGE SURGE IN DEMAND
FROM EQUITIES AND NOT A LOT OF
MONEY COMING OUT OF THE MARKET.
THE GFOR THE MOMENT, I DON'T
THINK THE MACRO NUMBERS WILL
SHAKE THIS EQUITY MARKET.
JONATHAN:
HERE IS THE EQUITY MARKET THIS
MORNING.
SLIGHTLY SOFTER BY 0.4 PERCENT.
LET'S GET YOU SOME MORNING
CALLS. GOLDMAN RAISING ITS PRICE
TARGET ON HALLIBURTON, CITING
IMPROVING VALLEY FROM VENEZUELA.
CITI RAISING ITS PRICE TARGET
ON BNY MELLON, CITING STRONG
OUTLOOK.
UBS DOWNGRADING RIVIAN TO SELL,
CALLING EXPECTATIONS FOR ITS
LATEST VEHICLE LAUNCH ELEVATED.
ANNMARIE: I SAW ONE YESTERDAY.
JONATHAN:
THE NEW ONES ARE VERY COOL.
ANNMARIE:
LIKE A RANGE ROVER FROM THE
1990'S. JONATHAN:
LET'S TURN TO THE AIRLINES.
DELTA IS FIRST TO REPORT
FOURTH-QUARTER RESULTS.
LISA IS AT DELTA HEADQUARTERS
IN ATLANTA WITH A SPECIAL
GUEST. HEY, LISA. LISA: THANK
YOU SO MUCH.
WE KNOW YOUR OBSESSION WITH
RIVIAN, EXPECT TO BE DRIVING
ONE.
I'M IN ATLANTA, GEORGIA WITH
THE CEO OF DELTA ED BASTIAN
ALONGSIDE ME AFTER THAT
EARNINGS REPORT, 20% PROJECTION
IN 2026.
NOW THAT YOU HAD A DAY TO
DIGEST, HAVE YOU BEEN SURPRISED
BY THE MARKET REACTION, THE
LINES OF INQUIRY THAT YOU GOT
YESTERDAY? ED: NOT REALLY.
FIRST OF ALL, THANKS FOR COMING.
GREAT TO HAVE YOU ON THE CAMPUS
IN ATLANTA.
A LOT OF EXPECTATIONS, WE HAVE
A LOT OF MOMENTUM GOING INTO
THE BUSINESS.
WE SEE THE FIRST PART OF THE
YEAR THE MOMENTUM PICKED UP
AGAIN, EARLY DAYS OF JANUARY.
AS A RESULT OF THAT, OUR
INVESTOR BASE WAS CURIOUS
WHETHER THEY SEE THAT MOMENTUM
CONTINUING TO BUILD, FLATLINED,
POP AROUND A LITTLE BIT.
WE JUST FINISHED A YEAR WHERE
WE SAW SOME PRETTY SIGNIFICANT
CHALLENGES, WHETHER IT WAS THE
LIBERATION DAY IMPACT ON
CONSUMER SENTIMENT, SHUT DOWN
OF THE GOVERNMENT, AIRSPACE AND
THE LATTER PART OF THE YEAR.
WE WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
HAD SOME WIGGLE ROOM, CAUTION
AS TO HOW WE THOUGHT ABOUT
PROJECTING THE YEAR OUT.
THEY WERE MORE INCREASE AS TO
HOW MUCH CAUTION IS THERE, WHAT
COULD GREAT LOOK LIKE?
THAT IS MORE OF WHAT WE SAW.
LISA:
WE WILL GET INTO WHAT GREAT
COULD LOOK LIKE.
LET'S GET INTO SOME THINGS THAT
ARE LESS FORESEEABLE INCLUDING
A PROPOSED 10% CAP ON CREDIT
CARD RATES.
IT RAISES THE QUESTION ABOUT
THE LOYALTY PROGRAM AT DELTA,
CONSIDERING AMERICAN EXPRESS
AND PARTNERSHIP THERE
CONTRIBUTED SOMETHING LIKE 14%
ACCORDING TO MY CALCULATIONS OF
THE REVENUE GROWTH OVER THE
PAST YEAR.
HOW BIG OF A HIT IS THIS, HAVE
YOU STARTED TO MAP THAT OUT? ED:
I THINK IT IS EARLY, PREMATURE.
THAT IS NOT OUR BUSINESS, THE
FINANCIAL SERVICES WORLD.
THE BANKS HAVE ALREADY SPOKEN
ABOUT IT, EXPRESSING A
TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF CONCERN.
I UNDERSTAND IT WOULD REQUIRE
LEGISLATION IS WHAT I'M TOLD.
WE KNOW THE CHALLENGES OF
GETTING ANYTHING THROUGH
CONGRESS THESE DAYS.
I ALSO THINK THE KNOCK ON
EFFECTS ARE PRETTY SIGNIFICANT
WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT WHAT SEEMS
TO BE MAY BE A GOOD IDEA TO
HELP LOWER INCOME STRATA, SOME
INTEREST-RATE RELIEF.
REALITY IS, IT WILL ELIMINATE
THEIR ABILITY FOR CREDIT, FREES
UP TREMENDOUS AMOUNTS OF CREDIT
LINES THAT THE BANKS WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO AFFORD.
IT IS NOT MY BUSINESS.
OF COURSE, WE WILL WORK CLOSELY
WITH AMERICAN EXPRESS.
THE SECOND THING IS, AMEX IS A
PREMIUM CAR PROVIDER, SO THAT
IS NOT REALLY THAT INCOME LEVEL
THAT WE FOCUS ON IN OUR
BUSINESS. LISA:
THERE IS A SENSE THAT IT IS A
GROWING PART OF THE REVENUES,
THIS PARTICULAR ASPECT MADE TO
DELTA'S REVENUES, SO I WONDER
HOW MUCH DO YOU EXPECT THAT TO
GROW ALL THINGS BEING EQUAL? ED:
WE EXPECT HIGH SINGLE DIGIT
GROWTH IN THE CURRENT YEAR, WE
HAVE SEEN LOW DOUBLE DIGIT
GROWTH THE LAST SEVERAL YEARS.
IT'S A REALLY IMPORTANT PART OF
OUR BUSINESS MODEL BUT IT IS
NOT SOMETHING THAT WE LOOK BACK
AND GETTING -- THIS IDEA HAS A
LOT OF ROADBLOCKS AND OBSTACLES
AHEAD OF IT. LISA:
ONE THING YOU SAID IN AN
INTERVIEW WITH A COLLEAGUE,
WHAT COULD GREAT LOOK LIKE, ALL
THE GROWTH THAT YOU HAVE SEEN
SO FAR IS FROM THE PREMIUM
CABIN, NOT THE MAIN CABIN.
IS THAT BECAUSE OF INCREDIBLE
STRENGTH AT THE PREMIUM END OR
WEAKNESS IN THE MAIN CABIN? ED:
DEMAND FOR THE PREMIUM PRODUCTS
THAT WE OFFER CONTINUES TO BE
AT A RECORD HIGH.
THE MORE THAT WE LOOK AT THE
HEALTH OF THE CONSUMER, WE TALK
ABOUT THE K, WE ARE AT THE TOP
END OF THE K, IN TERMS OF WHO
OUR CONSUMER IS.
THAT IS WHAT DRIVES THE GROWTH
THAT WE HAVE SEEN OVER THE LAST
SEVERAL YEARS.
THAT SAID ON THE MAIN CABIN,
STILL A BIG PART OF OUR
BUSINESS, PAYS THE BILLS.
AS WE SEE SOME OF THE
RATIONALIZATION OCCURRING
BECAUSE YOU HAVE A LOT OF LOWER
END AIRLINES CHASING TOO MANY
SEATS, CONSUMER DEMAND, THAT
SPACE IS WHERE A LOT OF THE
RATIONALIZATION IS IN THE
INDUSTRY CURRENTLY.
AS THAT BACKDROP CONTINUES TO
GET INTO A HEALTHIER
ENVIRONMENT -- BECAUSE ALL OF
THOSE AIRLINES HAVE TO FIND A
WAY TO EARN THEIR WAY, COST OF
CAPITAL OR THEY WILL NOT BE
AROUND.
WHATEVER HAPPENED THERE, WE
WILL BENEFIT FROM THAT AND WE
WILL KEEP THAT PREMIUM DEMAND
SENT GROWING.
WE ARE NOT GROWING IN THAT
SPACE BUT IT WILL STILL BE A
GOOD ONE FOR US. LISA:
YOU HAVE TALKED ABOUT
CONSOLIDATION IN THE LOWER END
OF THE INDUSTRY AS PEOPLE TRY
TO SURVIVE.
WOULD YOU PLAY IN THAT IN ANY
WAY, MAKE ANY ACQUISITIONS? ED:
WE WILL NOT COMMENT ON THAT
QUESTION, BUT WHEN YOU LOOK AT
WHAT DELTA IS, YOU CAN ANSWER
THE QUESTION FOR YOURSELF. LISA:
THE OTHER QUESTION IS HOW MUCH
GROWTH WILL COME FROM ORGANIC
VERSUS INORGANIC?
IS THERE A PLAN GIVEN HOW MUCH
YOU HAVE REDUCED LEVERAGE TO
INCREASE BY ACQUISITIONS SOME
OF YOUR CAPACITY? ED:
INTERNATIONAL IS A BIG PART OF
OUR GROWTH STRATEGY.
WE ANNOUNCED YESTERDAY A NEW
ORDER FOR THE BOEING DREAMLINER.
VERY EXCITED ABOUT THAT.
PEOPLE THINK ABOUT OUR
INDUSTRY, THEY SAY WHERE IS THE
FUTURE FOR TRAUMA GOING TO COME
FROM? IT IS INTERNATIONAL.
ONLY ONE IN FIVE PEOPLE IN THE
WORLD HAVE EVER STEPPED ON AN
AIRPLANE.
THAT MEANS YOU HAVE TO FIND NEW
OPPORTUNITIES TO GROW AND
EXPAND.
THAT WILL BE THE STATEMENT OF
THE SECOND CENTURY, ABOUT
MAKING THE WORLD A MUCH MORE
CONNECTED PLACE THAN IT IS
TODAY. LISA:
THIS COMES AT A TIME,
INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL GROWTH,
WHERE THE RHETORIC BETWEEN
COUNTRIES HAS BECOME MORE HE,
PUTTING UP WALLS.
ARE YOU CONCERNED THAT COULD
CREATE BARRIERS WHEN YOU TALK
ABOUT THE INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL,
THE GROWTH YOU ARE SEEING IN
THAT SECTOR? ED:
THERE HAVE ALWAYS BEEN LAWS AND
POLITICS.
THE ONE THING THAT REALLY DOES
UNITE THE WORLD IS WHEN YOU CAN
ACTUALLY TRAVEL AND SEE AND
EXPERIENCE GET TO KNOW PEOPLE.
YOU BRING THE COUNTRY'S
PHYSICALLY CLOSER TOGETHER.
YES, IT WILL NOT BE A STRAIGHT
LINE UP.
IN THIS BUSINESS, WE KNOW THERE
IS A LOT OF TURBULENCE IN THE
SKY, NOT JUST IN THE BUSINESS
MODEL SOMETIMES.
BUT WHEN WE DO GET PHYSICALLY
CONNECTED BACK TOGETHER AND THE
WORLD STARTS TO BECOME A CLOSER
PLACE, THAT IS WHERE REAL
OPPORTUNITY SITS. LISA:
YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT THE
DEMAND, SEEING RECORD DEMAND IN
THE FIRST WEEK AND A HALF OF
JANUARY.
IS IT MOSTLY COMING FROM
PREMIUM, IS IT EQUAL ACROSS ALL
TIERS, IS IT EQUAL IN ECONOMY,
THE ROBUST INTEREST THAT YOU
ARE SEEING AT THE TOP END? ED:
IT CONTINUES TO BE IN BUSINESS.
DOUBLE-DIGIT GROWTH IN BUSINESS
TO START THE YEAR.
WE HAD OUR LARGEST WEEKLY SALES
IN HISTORY LAST WEEK, DOUBLE
DIGITS OVER THE SAME WEEK A
YEAR AGO.
IF THIS DEMAND SET CONTINUES,
WE WILL HAVE A GREAT YEAR.
ANNMARIE: I HAVE TO -- LISA:
I HAVE TO END WITH THIS, THE
LOUNGES, THEY ARE GETTING
REALLY CROWDED.
HOW ARE YOU GOING TO MANAGE
THAT, GIVEN PEOPLE HAVE HAD
COMPLAINTS ABOUT THAT. ED:
IT IS A PROBLEM OF NO GOOD DEED
GOES UNPUNISHED.
EVERYBODY WANTS TO BE IN THERE,
DOESN'T FEEL EXCLUSIVE ANY
LONGER.
WE ARE WORKING THROUGH THAT.
AMERICAN EXPRESS IS BUILDING
NEW LOUNGES, WE HAVE THE DELTA
ONE LOUNGES COMING.
WE ARE GOING TO CONTINUE TO
BUILD MORE SUPPLY AND CAPACITY
TO TAKE CARE OF OUR CUSTOMERS.
LISA:
MARIA CORINA ED BASTIAN, THANK
YOU. APPRECIATE YOU SITTING DOWN
WITH US.
HE DID SAY THAT HE WOULD
ADDRESS THE LOUNGE ISSUE.
JONATHAN:
WE NEED SOMETHING FROM NEW YORK.
IS THERE SOMETHING THAT THEY
CAN FIGURE OUT? LISA:
I WILL PUT IN THE REQUEST.
JONATHAN: THANK YOU.
LISA WITH THE LATEST ON THE
GROUND FROM DELTA AIRLINES.
HOW ABOUT A ROUTE INTO SARDINIA?
ANNMARIE:
EVERYONE IS SO EXCITED ABOUT
SICILY, THE SERIES, "WHITE
LOTUS."
THERE IS SOMEONE TRAVELING
DIRECTLY TO BARI. JONATHAN:
THE LATEST ON DELTA THERE.
THE HEADLINE, THE TAKE AWAY
FROM THAT COMPANY STORY, HOW
WELL THE PREMIUM CABIN IS
DOING, HOW SOFT THINGS ARE
ELSEWHERE.
WE ARE SEEING THAT IN THE
ECONOMY WHICH IS WHY I, THE
DELTA AIRLINES ECONOMY.
HALF THE COUNTRY THINKS IT IS
GROUP ONE, AND THE OTHER HALF
IS STRUGGLING. ANNMARIE:
THEY ARE PUTTING THE MONEY INTO
THOSE INDIVIDUALS WHO CAN
AFFORD IT.
IT ALMOST FEELS LIKE A
LOWERCASE I.
IT IS EVERYONE AND THEN A SMALL
TOP 10% AT THE TOP. JONATHAN:
COMING UP, DATA, PPI, RETAIL
SALES.
CATCHING UP WITH SARAH HOUSE
FROM WELLS FARGO.
FROM NEW YORK CITY, YOU ARE
WATCHING BLOOMBERG TV.
♪
JONATHAN:
THE OPENING BELL ABOUT 60
MINUTES AWAY.
EQUITY FUTURES ON THE S&P DOWN
BY NEGATIVE 3% -- 0.3 PERCENT.
ECONOMIC DATA SECONDS AWAY.
ANOTHER READ ON INFLATION WITH
PPI AND RETAIL SALES IN AMERICA.
IN THE BOND MARKET, YIELDS
STILL ARRANGE BROWN.
BOND YIELDS LOWER BY TWO BASIS
POINTS.
WITH THE LATEST DATA, LET'S
CROSS OVER TO MIKE MCKEE. MIKE:
WE WILL SEE IF WE CANNOT MOVE
THE NEEDLE A LITTLE OF IT FOR
THE EQUITY MARKETS WITH RETAIL
SALES COMING IN UP .6% AFTER
BEING FLAT, THAT'S THE HEADLINE.
FLAT IN THE MONTH OF OCTOBER.
THESE ARE NOVEMBER NUMBERS, SO
WE ARE BEHIND BECAUSE OF THE
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN.
EX AUTOS, UP HALF A PERCENT
AFTER A 0.4 GAIN.
EX AUTOS AND GAS, UP ZERO .4 AS
WELL.
THE CONTROL GROUP, WHICH WE
CARE ABOUT, UP 0.4%, DOWN FROM
A 0.6 PERCENT GAIN REVISED
LOWER FROM THE MONTH OF OCTOBER.
PPI NUMBERS ARE NOT OUT YET,
SLOW TO COME OUT. HERE WE GO.
PRODUCER PRICE INCREASED 0.2%
IN NOVEMBER.
SEPTEMBER TO NOVEMBER NUMBERS
BECAUSE THERE WERE NO OCTOBER
NUMBERS JUST LIKE WITH CPI.
PPI FOR THE YEAR, LET'S SEE IF
YOU HAVE AN ANNUALIZED BASIS
NUMBER.
3% FOR THE 12 MONTHS ENDED IN
NOVEMBER. THAT IS THE HEADLINE.
IF YOU WANT TO TAKE THE CORE,
WHICH WE USUALLY CONSIDER THE
NEXT TRADE ONE, INDEX FOR FINAL
DEMAND, UP 0.2% IN NOVEMBER.
FOR THE YEAR, UP 3.5%.
THAT IS THE LARGEST 12-MONTH
INCREASE SINCE RISING 3.5% IN
MARCH.
ON THE BASIS OF THE PPI ANNUAL
FIGURES, IT LOOKS LIKE YOU WILL
NOT BE CUTTING INTEREST RATES
ANYTIME SOON, AND WITH
RELATIVELY STRONG RETAIL SALES,
IT SEEMS LIKE INFLATION IS
STILL GOING TO BE ON THE MENU.
JONATHAN:
AS YOU INDICATED, SOMEWHAT
DATED DATA, BUT DO WE HAVE A
DECENT PICTURE OF THE OVERALL
ECONOMY? MIKE:
PROBABLY NOT IN TERMS OF THE
DATA THAT COMES IN FOR THE
OVERALL ECONOMY, BUT IT GIVES
US A DIRECTION.
THE JANUARY MEETING, THEY HAVE
SAID THEY PROBABLY WILL NOT BE
CUTTING.
I WOULD IMAGINE THIS KIND OF
DATA SEALS THAT.
TWO OR THREE MORE REPORTS ON
THESE THINK BEFORE THE NEXT
MEETING IN MARCH.
THEY WILL HAVE A MUCH CLEANER
READ BY THE TIME WE GET TO THE
END OF THE FIRST QUARTER.
QUICKLY HERE, MOTOR VEHICLE
SALES WERE UP BY A PERCENT,
FURNITURE DOWN 0.1 PERCENT,
BUILDING MATERIALS UP 1.3%.
WE SAW IN CPI, GROCERY PRICE
INDEXES WENT UP.
SINCE ALL OF THIS IS CALCULATED
ON A DOLLAR BASIS, THAT'S
INTERESTING.
CLOTHING STORES UP 0.9%.
DEPARTMENT STORES DOWN 2.9.
GENERAL MERCHANDISE FLAT.
THESE ARE NOVEMBER NUMBERS, SO
THIS WOULD HAVE BEEN BLACK
FRIDAY NUMBERS.
THEY DON'T SEEM TO BE AS GOOD
AS YOU MIGHT HAVE HOPED FOR
THAT PERIOD OF TIME IN TERMS OF
HOLIDAY GIFTS. JONATHAN:
STANDBY, I WILL GET TO THE
PRICE ACTION.
WE WILL TALK ABOUT THE FEDERAL
RESERVE.
EQUITY FUTURES PRETTY MUCH
UNMOVED.
THE BOND MARKET, LOOKING ACROSS
THE YIELD CURVE, STILL LOWER BY
A BASIS POINT OR TWO ACROSS THE
CURVE. FOREIGN EXCHANGE.
I WANTED TO TALK TO YOU ABOUT
THE UNIVERSAL PUSHBACK WE HAVE
SEEN TWO DEVELOPMENTS AROUND
THE FEDERAL RESERVE OVER THE
PAST FEW DAYS, TO SEE ALL OF
THESE CENTRAL BANKERS SIGNED ON
TO THE SAME NOTE TO PAYMENT
WHAT WAS YOUR REACTION TO THAT?
MIKE:
CENTRAL BANKERS ARE LOOKING AT
THIS FROM THE POINT OF VIEW OF
WHAT IS GOOD FOR THEMSELVES IS
HAVING THE FED BE INDEPENDENT
AND NOT UNDER THE CONTROL OF
ANY POLITICIAN.
IF THE FED IS MOVING INTEREST
RATES AROUND, IT WILL AFFECT
PEOPLE'S CURRENCIES, AND THAT
WILL AFFECT THEIR ECONOMIES.
THEY HAVE A VESTED INTEREST IN
THIS.
NEEL KASHKARI, IN AN INTERVIEW
WITH THE NEW YORK TIMES, SAYS
THAT JAY POWELL IS RIGHT, THIS
IS ABOUT MONETARY POLICY, THE
PRESIDENT'S EFFORTS, AND THAT
JAY POWELL EXPLAINED THE
SITUATION ACCURATELY.
HE DOESN'T SEE ANY IMPETUS TO
CUT IN JANUARY.
A LITTLE BIT OF OTHER NEWS,
FRENCH HILL, CHAIRMAN OF THE
HOUSE FINANCIAL SERVICES
COMMITTEE, SAYS THAT HE
ANTICIPATES JAY POWELL WILL NOT
COME UP TO THE HILL TO TESTIFY
FOR THE HOUSE AND SENATE IN
WHAT WE CALL THE HUMPHREY
HAWKINS TESTIMONY BECAUSE OF
THE PRESIDENT'S INVESTIGATION.
JONATHAN:
THERE IS SOME TENSION BUILDING,
AND HAS BEEN FOR THE YEAR.
A LOT OF FOREIGN CENTRAL BANKS
SIGNED ON TO A LETTER TO DEFEND
CHAIRMAN POWELL AND THE
INDEPENDENCE OF THE FEDERAL
RESERVE.
THESE CENTRAL BANKS ARE STILL
ACCOUNTABLE TO THE GOVERNMENTS
THEY ARE IN, THE COUNTRIES THEY
ARE PLACED IN.
THIS WAS INTERESTING, WATCHING
THIS PLAY OUT IN NEW ZEALAND.
THE PRIME MINISTER CAME UP WITH
A NOTE.
THE NEW ZEALAND CENTRAL BANK
GOVERNORS SIGNED ON TO THAT
SAME LETTER AND THIS IS WITH
THE PRIME MINISTER HAD TO SAY.
WE SHOULD NOT INVOLVE OURSELVES
IN U.S. DOMESTIC POLITICS.
WE REMIND THE GOVERNMENT TO
STAY IN HER LINE AND STICK TO
DOMESTIC MONETARY POLICY.
ANNMARIE:
BASICALLY SAYING FROM THE
FOREIGN AFFAIRS MINISTER, DO
NOT WADE INTO ANOTHER COUNTRY'S
DOMESTIC POLITICS.
HE PUT IT PRETTY BLUNTLY, STAY
IN YOUR LANE.
THIS IS AN EXPORT HEAVY ECONOMY.
THEY DON'T WANT TO BE IN THE
CROSSFIRE AS OF THIS PRESIDENT
AS THEY DEAL WITH TRADE ISSUES.
A LOT OF THESE CENTRAL BANKERS
SEEMED EXCITED TO SIGN UP FOR
THE LIST. THE ECB WAS THERE,
THE SWISS NATIONAL BANK, BUT
THIS IS ONE PLACE WHERE THE
FOREIGN AFFAIRS MINISTER IS
SAYING, THAT IS NOT YOUR ROLE,
THIS IS MY ROLE WITH THE UNITED
STATES.
YOU SHOULDN'T HAVE SIGNED UP
FOR IT.
ACTUALLY GETTING A LITTLE BIT
OF A TALKING TO PUBLICLY.
JONATHAN:
YOU ARE ACCOUNTABLE, A REMINDER
COMING OUT OF NEW ZEALAND.
SARAH HOUSE FROM WELLS FARGO
HERE TO TALK ABOUT ECONOMIC
DATA. GETTING A PICTURE FOR THE
MOMENTUM COMING INTO 2026, WHAT
DOES THIS ECONOMY LOOK LIKE?
SARAH:
I STILL THINK WE HAVE SOME
DECENT MOMENTUM, NOT NEARLY AS
STRONG AS WE WERE LOOKING AT A
YEAR AGO BUT YOU ARE SEEING
CONSUMERS ARE STILL OUT THERE
SPENDING.
THE UNDERLYING PACE OF INCOME
GROWTH HAS BEEN A BIT OF A
CHALLENGE, WHICH IS THE JOBS
MARKET SLOWING, BUT YOU STILL
HAVE TRANSFER PAYMENTS.
AT THE END OF THE DAY,
CONSUMERS STILL HAVE THEIR JOBS
EVEN IF YOU ARE SEEING A MORE
SLUGGISH JOB MARKET.
WE ARE SEEING THAT FILTER THREE
AND SPENDING.
WHILE YOU ARE SEEING SOME
UNDERLYING INFLATIONARY
PRESSURES BEGIN TO DISSIPATE,
IT'S ONLY HAPPENING GRADUALLY
AS WE SAW WITH PPI NUMBERS THIS
MORNING. JONATHAN:
CITI WE HAD ON THE PROGRAM
EARLIER THIS MORNING.
THE ARGUMENT THAT THE
DISINFLATIONARY MOMENTUM WILL
OPEN THE DOOR FOR RATE CUTS.
WHERE ARE YOU ON THE SAME
ARGUMENT? SARAH:
I GENERALLY AGREE.
WE HAVE TWO RATE CUTS AND OUR
FORECASTS WITH FURTHER
DISINFLATION.
PART OF THAT STORY, EVEN IF WE
ARE NOT GETTING BACK TO 2% THIS
YEAR, THE DIRECTION OF PROGRESS
WILL ENCOURAGE THE FED TO MOVE
TO A MORE NEUTRAL STANCE.
YOU STILL HAVE LINGERING
CONCERNS ABOUT THE JOB MARKET.
EVEN WITH DECEMBER'S
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE OVER THE PAST
YEAR, OVER THE PAST THREE
YEARS, COMBINED THAT WITH THE
QUESTIONABLE PACE OF JOB GROWTH
WHERE WE ARE SEEING HIRING AT
MORE OR LESS A STANDSTILL,
THERE IS ENOUGH TO MAKE THE FED
CAUTIOUS, TO RETURN POLICY TO A
STANCE THAT THEY ARE DECIDEDLY
BELIEVING IT IS CLOSER TO
NEUTRAL.
A LOT OF QUESTIONS ABOUT WHERE
THAT IS THAT MOST COMMITTEE
MEMBERS WOULD SAY THAT WE ARE
NOT THERE YET. ANNMARIE:
THIS WAS NOVEMBER'S NUMBERS.
WHAT DO YOU TAKE FROM THE FACT
THAT THE DATA FEELS SO OUTDATED
AT THIS POINT? SARAH:
SOME DATA IS BETTER THAN NO
DATA, AND EVEN LATE DATA IS
BETTER THAN HOLES IN THE DATA.
THERE ARE STILL QUESTIONS IN
TERMS OF HOW ROBUST THE DATA IS
GIVEN SAMPLING PERIODS SHIFTED,
SURVEY RESPONSE RATES DISRUPTED
BY THE NORMAL COURSE OF
PROCEDURE.
WHEN WE ARE SEEING IS THE
INFLATION PICTURE IS DEFINITELY
NOT GETTING WORSE.
EVEN IF WE ARE SEEING SIGNS
FROM PPI THAT PRICE GROWTH
REMAINS RATHER STICKY, WE ARE
STILL SEEING THE CORE STILL
DOWN ON A YEAR-OVER-YEAR BASIS
FROM WHERE WE WERE A YEAR AGO.
WE ARE SEEING MORE CLEAR
IMPROVEMENT FROM THE LATEST CPI
DATA.
IT IS STILL CONSISTENT WITH
THAT SLOW, GRADUAL DESCENT IN
INFLATION RESUMING. ANNMARIE:
I FEEL LIKE A BROKEN RECORD,
BUT WHEN DO YOU THINK WE WILL
START TO GET CLEAN READINGS
FROM THE GOVERNMENT DATA? SARAH:
CLOSER TO MARCH, PARTICULARLY
WHEN IT COMES TO THE INFLATION
DATA WHERE YOU HAVE SOME OF THE
SEASONALITY ISSUES TO GET
THROUGH, NOT JUST THE SHUTDOWN.
YOU ARE IN JUST A VERY NOISY
PICTURE FOR THE INFLATION
PICTURE.
BY THE TIME WE GET THE MARCH
DATA, WHICH WILL NOT BE UNTIL
APRIL, THERE WILL STILL BE SOME
QUESTIONS AROUND THIS.
AT LEAST WE HAVE SOME DATA NOW
BUT I WOULD NOT SAY IT IS THE
CLEANEST DATA WE HAVE HAD, THE
CLEANEST BLOCK OF DATA THAT WE
LIKE TO BE MAKING FORECASTS ON,
POLICYMAKERS MAKING DECISIONS
ON. JONATHAN:
EVERYONE IS FREAKING OUT ABOUT
CENTRAL BANK INDEPENDENCE.
HOW CREDIBLE ARE THOSE THREATS?
WHEN YOU LOOK AT INFLATION
BASED EXPECTATIONS, DO YOU SEE
A CREDIBLE THREAT TO CENTRAL
BANK INDEPENDENCE SHOWING UP
ANYWHERE? SARAH:
IT IS DIFFICULT FOR MARCUS A
PRICE THAT IN RIGHT NOW.
WE HAVE SEEN THE PRESSURE RAMP
UP, BUT AT THE END OF THE DAY,
WE STILL HAVE A 19-MEMBER
COMMITTEE.
UNTIL YOU SEE A MUCH BIGGER
CHANGE IN THE COMMITTEE, YOU
WILL SEE POLICYMAKERS COME AS
WE HAVE SEEN JAY POWELL SAY
TIME AND AGAIN, THEY WILL PUT
THEIR HEADS DOWN AND DO THEIR
JOB.
THAT IS THE BEST WAY THEY CAN
DEMONSTRATE THAT INDEPENDENCE.
AS LONG AS WE SEE THAT PLAY
OUT, YOU WILL NOT SEE A LOT OF
THAT IN THE MARKETS, EVEN IF IT
IS IN THE BACK OF THE LIGHT OF
A LOT OF MARKET PARTICIPANTS.
JONATHAN:
SARAH HOUSE OF WELLS FARGO.
NOT TO UNDERPLAY THE
SERIOUSNESS OF THE CONVERSATION
WE ARE HAVING OVER THE LAST FEW
DAYS, BUT IF YOU LOOK AT THE
MARKET'S JUDGMENT OF HOW
CREDIBLE THESE THREATS ARE,
THEY SEEM TO BE A LOT OF FAITH
IN THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE
FEDERAL RESERVE, RESILIENCE OF
THE INSTITUTION.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE BOND MARKET,
ESSENTIALLY UNMOVED IN THE FACE
OF THIS. ANNMARIE:
A LOT OF THIS HAS TO DO WITH
YOU HAVE SENATORS AND
INDIVIDUALS IN CONGRESS WHO ARE
SAYING WE ARE NOT GOING TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH ANY SORT OF FED
PIC UNTIL THIS IS WRAPPED UP.
THE SPEECH THAT PRESIDENT
WILLIAMS GAVE, HE WAS ASKED THE
QUESTION, WHY IS THE MARKET
SHRUGGING IT OFF, DO THEY NOT
CARE? THE ANSWER WAS THE MARKET
DOESN'T HAVE ALL THE
INFORMATION YET.
IF THAT IS STILL INDEPENDENT,
SO THE MARKET IS PUSHING THIS
OFF TO SOMETHING ELSE, UNTIL
THEY HAVE THE CREDIBILITY
SERIOUSLY QUESTIONED. JONATHAN:
10-YEAR BOND YIELDS, 4.1 FIVE,
DOWN BY TWO BASIS POINTS.
LET'S CROSS OVER TO VONNIE
QUINN FOR YOUR BLOOMBERG BRIEF.
VONNIE:
RECAPPING THE DATA FROM MOMENTS
AGO, PPI INFLATION COMING IN
HIGHER THAN EXPECTED FOR
NOVEMBER, RISING 3%
YEAR-OVER-YEAR COMPARED TO
ESTIMATES OF 2.7%.
MONTH OVER MONTH NUMBERS WERE
UNCHANGED FOR PRICES EXCLUDING
FOOD AND ENERGY.
RETAIL SALES CAME IN HIGHER
THAN EXPECTED, RISING 0.6
PERCENT FROM OCTOBER COMPARED
TO THE ESTIMATE OF 0.5%.
AMAZON IS LOOKING TO REDUCE
WHAT IT PAYS SUPPLIERS AHEAD OF
THAT POTENTIAL SUPREME COURT
TARIFF DECISION.
THE FINANCIAL TIMES REPORTED IN
THE TECH JOHN IS MOVING TO
REVERSE SOME OF THE MEASURES
USED TO EASE THE IMPACTS OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S LEVEES.
IN SPORTS, MIKE TOMLIN HAS
STEPPED DOWN AS THE HEAD COACH
OF THE PITTSBURGH STEELERS.
HE HAD BEEN IN THE ROLE SINCE
2007, THE LONGEST TENURED HEAD
COACH IN THE NFL.
HE FAILED TO WIN A PLAYOFF GAME
ACROSS THE TEAM'S LAST SEVEN
APPEARANCES.
IN HIS 19 YEARS, HE NEVER
FINISHED WITH A LOSING RECORD.
JONATHAN: THANK YOU.
NEXT, CATCHING UP WITH THE
CARLYLE COFOUNDER DAVID
RUBENSTEIN, PLUS YAHAIRA ANAND
WITH YOUR MORNING MOVERS.
>> WHAT IS EXCEEDINGLY CLEAR IS
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP WILL NOT
LET THESE TO GO.
WE MAY END UP WITH THE DECISION
TODAY THAT RULES AGAINST
CERTAIN TARIFFS, THOSE IMPOSED
FOR TRADE DEFICITS, AND RETAINS
OTHER TARIFFS.
IT WILL BE REALLY IMPORTANT TO
TAKE SOME TIME TO ANALYZE
WHATEVER THE SUPREME COURT PUTS
OUT BEFORE COMPANY DECIDE WHAT
TO DO NEXT. JONATHAN:
THE FORMER WHITE HOUSE TRADE
OFFICIAL WEIGHING IN ON
POTENTIALLY GETTING A RULING ON
THE LIBERATION DAY TARIFFS
ANNOUNCED BY THE PRESIDENT LAST
APRIL.
COUNTING DOWN TO THE OPENING
BELL.
EQUITY FUTURES SLIGHTLY SOFTER
THIS MORNING, DOWN BY 0.5%.
DOWN 0.6% ON THE NASDAQ.
FINANCIALS AND BANKS IN FOCUS.
YAHAIRA: WE START THERE.
A LOT OF WHIPS SONG ALONG THESE
BANK STOCKS.
WELLS FARGO SHARES ARE DOWN 2.5
PERCENT AFTER HIGHER SEVERANCE
COSTS AND A MISS ON NET
INTEREST INCOME HIT PROFITS.
BANK OF AMERICA SHARES WERE
POSITIVE EARLIER, NOW DOWN ONE
POINT 8% DESPITE IT BEATING ON
MOST MEASURES.
EQUITY TRADERS POSTING THEIR
BEST FOR QUARTER EVER.
CITI, THE ONLY ONE IN THE GREEN
AMONG THE BANKS REPORTED, UP
ONE POINT 8% AFTER REPORTING A
BIG JUMP IN DEALMAKING REVENUE.
84% IN THE FOURTH QUARTER.
GOLD, SILVER, COPPER ALL
HEADING RECORD HIGHS.
THAT IS POWERING MINING STOCKS
THIS MORNING.
THERE COULD GOLD UP ONE .9
PERCENT. FIRST MAJESTIC SILVER
CORPORATION IS UP 3.5%.
PALO ALTO NETWORKS SHARES ARE
DOWN 1.5 PERCENT ON A REPORT
THAT CHINA HAS BANNED THE USE
OF ITS SOFTWARE OVER NATIONAL
SECURITY CONCERNS.
THIS IS PART OF A BIGGER BAND
INVOLVING A DOZEN U.S.
AND ISRAELI CYBER SECURITY
FIRMS. THIS COMES AS TENSIONS
BETWEEN CHINA AND THE U.S.
HAVE HEIGHTENED.
CHINA IS PUSHING ITS COMPANIES
TO USE DOMESTIC PROVIDERS.
JONATHAN: THANK YOU.
LET'S TURN BACK TO THE BIG
STORY OF THE WEEK SO FAR, JAMIE
DIMON MORNING THE DOJ SUBPOENAS
OF THE FED RISK UNDERMINING THE
CENTRAL BANKS INDEPENDENCE.
PRESIDENT TRUMP RESPONDING.
>> I THINK IT IS FINE WHEN I'M
DOING.
WE SHOULD HAVE LOWER RATES.
JAMIE DIMON PROBABLY WANT
HIGHER RATES.
MAYBE HE MAKES MORE MONEY THAT
WAY. JONATHAN:
DAVID RUBENSTEIN JOINS US NOW
FOR MORE. GOOD TO SEE YOU.
YOU HAVE KNOWN CHAIRMAN POWELL
FOR QUITE A WHILE.
IT IS VERY UNUSUAL TO SEE HIM
ENGAGE IN SUCH A PUBLIC WAY ON
SUCH A HOT ISSUE LIKE HE DID ON
SUNDAY EVENING.
WHAT IS YOUR REACTION?
>> HE WORKED AT CARLYLE FOR
EIGHT YEARS, A VERY SMART
PERSON.
FOR SEVERAL YEARS, HE DIDN'T
RESPOND TO ANY OF THE
COMPLAINTS THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
HAD ABOUT HIM.
IT SHOWED ENORMOUS RESTRAINT.
I DON'T THINK I COULD'VE HAD
THAT KIND OF RESTRAINT.
FINALLY WHEN THE POSSIBILITY OF
CRIMINAL ACTION AGAINST HIM WAS
PUT ON THE TABLE, HE RESPONDED
IN A WAY THAT MOST PEOPLE WOULD
RESPOND.
ANYBODY THAT HAS THAT KIND OF
THREAT OVER THEM IS PROBABLY
GOING TO RESPOND.
WHEN PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD
THREATS OF CRIMINAL ACTION
AGAINST HIM, HE RESPONDED
PUBLICLY.
I'M NOT SURPRISED THAT JAY
POWELL RESPONDED THAT WAY.
JONATHAN:
IN YOUR OPINION, DO YOU THINK
THERE IS A GENUINE THREAT TO
THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE FEDERAL
RESERVE? DAVID:
ALL THAT HAS HAPPENED SO FAR IS
SUBPOENAS ISSUED, NO DECISION
BY A GRAND JURY, PROSECUTOR.
I JUST DON'T KNOW WHAT WOULD
HAPPEN.
MY GUESS IS PROBABLY NOTHING
WOULD HAPPEN IN THE END.
THE REACTION OF THE FINANCIAL
COMMUNITY HAS BEEN FAIRLY
UNANIMOUS.
I HAVE NOT SEEN ANYONE THAT
SAYS THIS IS A GOOD IDEA, LET'S
MAKE THE FED LESS INDEPENDENT.
MY VIEW IS THAT, LIKE MANY
THINGS IN WASHINGTON, ONE DAY
WONDER STORIES.
THIS WILL PROBABLY GO AWAY.
OF COURSE, I'M NOT THE PERSON
THAT HAS SUBPOENAS AGAINST ME,
SO IT'S EASY FOR ME TO SAY THAT.
I WOULD EXPECT AN INTELLIGENT
PERSON THAT LOOKS AT JAY POWELL
AND HIS INTEGRITY OVER MANY
YEARS WOULD CONCLUDE THAT THIS
IS AN HONEST PERSON.
THERE ARE ALWAYS COST OVERRUNS
IN ANY BUILDING YOU HAVE.
I DON'T KNOW THAT COST OVERRUNS
ARE CRIMINAL.
ANY BUILDING IN WASHINGTON THAT
IS BUILT HAS COST OVERRUNS.
THE WHITE HOUSE BALLROOM,
READING REPORTS, THERE SEEMS TO
BE COST OVERRUNS THERE, AS WELL.
YOU ALWAYS HAVE COST OVERRUNS
IN BUILDING BUILDINGS.
I DON'T THINK HE IS A
CONSTRUCTION MANAGER OR IS
MAKING MONEY FROM THE COST
OVERRUNS, SO I DON'T THINK
ANYTHING CRIMINAL IN MY VIEW
BASED ON WHAT I'VE SEEN SO FAR.
ANNMARIE:
HAVING KNOWN JAY POWELL WELL,
DO YOU THINK HE WILL STAY ON AT
THE FED TO SERVE OUT HIS TERM
AS A GOVERNOR UNTIL 2028? DAVID:
I DON'T WANT TO SPEAK FOR HIM.
I WOULD SAY HE HAS DONE A GREAT
JOB SERVING THE COUNTRY AS
CHAIR.
AS CHAIR, WE HAVE NOT HAD ANY
RECESSIONS.
HE HAS HAD TO INCREASE AND
DECREASE INTEREST RATES.
NORMALLY, WHEN YOU DO THAT, AT
SOME POINT YOU GET A RECESSION.
IT IS NOT ONLY BECAUSE OF HIM
BUT I THINK HE PROBABLY FEELS
HE HAS DONE A SERVICE TO THE
COUNTRY, DONE HIS SERVICE
BEFORE IN THE GEORGE HERBERT
WALKER BUSH ADMINISTRATION.
IF IT WERE ME, I WOULD SAY,
I'VE DONE MY JOB AS CHAIRMAN, I
WILL DO SOMETHING ELSE, BUT I
CANNOT SPEAK FOR HIM. ANNMARIE:
WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT HIS TENURE
OF THE FED, A LOT OF PEOPLE
KNOW HIM AS MR. TRANSITORY.
DOES THIS RESHAPE HIS LEGACY
NOW, THE VIDEO THAT HE PUT OUT?
DAVID:
SINCE THIS HAS NEVER HAPPENED
TO ANY CHAIR OF THE FED BEFORE,
THIS IS PROBABLY GETTING A LOT
OF ATTENTION.
I SUSPECT PEOPLE GO DOWN IN
HISTORY AS A FED CHAIR WHO
EXPLAINED WHAT THE FED WAS
LIKELY TO DO IN A REASONABLY
PRECISE TERMS BEFORE HE DID IT,
AND THEN 30 MINUTES AFTER, HE
WOULD EXPLAIN IT IN ENGLISH.
MANY FED CHAIRS TALK IN FED
SPEAK, SO YOU CANNOT UNDERSTAND
WHAT THEY ARE SAYING, AND
THAT'S INTENTIONAL.
ALAN GREENSPAN SAID HE DIDN'T
WANT PEOPLE TO KNOW WHAT HE WAS
THINKING.
JAY POWELL IS USING KING'S
ENGLISH AND HE SAYS THINGS
PRETTY PRECISELY AND TELLS YOU
WITHIN 30 MINUTES THE THINGS
THEY DID AND WHY THEY DID IT.
I THINK HE HAS DONE A GOOD JOB
FOR THE FED.
AGAIN, WE HAVE NOT HAD ANY
RECESSIONS.
HE WAS NOT THE ONE WHO SAID
LET'S INJECT $5 TRILLION INTO
THE ECONOMY TO DEAL WITH COVID.
IT WAS UNDER PRESIDENT TRUMP
AND PRESIDENT BIDEN THAT $5
TRILLION WAS INJECTED INTO THE
ECONOMY WITH NO CORRESPONDING
TAX INCREASES.
OF COURSE YOU'LL GET INFLATION.
I DON'T THINK THAT WAS A BIG
PART OF HIS LEGACY.
HE DID WHAT WAS NECESSARY TO BE
DONE.
NOW INFLATION IS IN REASONABLE
SHAPE.
IT IS NOT TO PERCENT, BUT IT IS
ALSO NOT AT 8%.
THE 2% TARGET MAY HAVE BEEN A
LITTLE AMBITIOUS, MAYBE IT WILL
GET THERE, BUT INFLATION IS NOT
THE MAIN THING THAT PEOPLE ARE
TALKING ABOUT IN AMERICA.
JONATHAN:
THE INFLATION RATE IS TOLERABLE
FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE IN THIS
COUNTRY BUT THE PRICE LEVEL IS
UNAFFORDABLE.
WE SEE THAT BEING ADDRESSED BY
THE PRESIDENT.
CITIGROUP HAS BEEN DIRECT ABOUT
SOME OF THE PROPOSALS COMING
OUT OF THE WHITE HOUSE, SAYING
THE INTEREST RATE CAP WOULD
REDUCE ACCESS TO CREDIT.
HAS CREDIT GOT A TARGET ON ITS
BACK THIS YEAR? DAVID:
ALWAYS EASY TO BEAT UP ON BIG
BUSINESS.
THAT IS SOMETHING THE AVERAGE
PERSON IS NOT HAPPY WITH FROM
TIME TO TIME.
POLITICIANS AND POLITICAL
FIGURES FOR THE LAST 200 YEARS
IN AMERICA HAVE FOUND BEATING
UP ON WALL STREET OR
BUSINESSPEOPLE PEOPLE A VERY
INVITING THING TO DO.
NO ONE HAS EVER LOST AN
ELECTION BY BEATING UP ON WALL
STREET.
BEATING UP ON WALL STREET HAS
NEVER FORCED ANYONE TO LOSE AN
ELECTION. IT IS A TRIED AND TRUE
TECHNIQUE. ANNMARIE:
DOES THAT GIVE WALL STREET
PAUSE NOW, THAT THE PRESIDENT
IS APPARENTLY TEXTING ON A
REGULAR BASIS WITH ZOHRAN
MAMDANI, HAVING CALLS WITH
ELIZABETH WARREN ON ISSUES LIKE
THIS, 10 PERCENT CAP ON CREDIT
CARDS? DAVID:
WHILE I CAN'T SPEAK FOR THE
ENTIRE BUSINESS COMMUNITY, THEY
ARE USED TO PRESIDENT FROM
DOING THESE KINDS OF THINGS.
THEY UNDERSTAND THIS IS HIS
TECHNIQUE OF COMMUNICATING.
THEY DON'T CRITICIZE IT, DON'T
SAY THAT IT IS GREAT, IT IS
JUST HOW HE COMMUNICATES.
EACH PERSON WILL HAVE TO MAKE
THEIR OWN JUDGMENT. JONATHAN:
ALWAYS APPRECIATE YOUR TIME AND
OPINION, PARTICULARLY ON THIS
TOPIC. DAVID RUBENSTEIN, THE
COCHAIRMAN OF CARLYLE.
9:00 EASTERN TIME, THE LATEST
EPISODE OF THE DAVID RUBENSTEIN
SHOW, PEER TO PEER
CONVERSATIONS, TAKING PLACE
WITH BILL BROWDER. ANNMARIE:
HE MADE A TON OF MONEY IN THE
1990'S IN RUSSIA, HAS A LOT TO
SAY ABOUT WHAT IS GOING ON
RIGHT NOW IN THIS WAR WITH
UKRAINE.
ONE HOUR AWAY ALMOST, REMEMBER,
WE MAY GET A TARIFF DECISION
FROM THE SUPREME COURT.
ALL EYES ON THAT. JONATHAN:
WE WILL SEE IF WE GET ONE THIS
WEEK.
ANTICIPATING MORE EARNINGS TO
COME. MORGAN STANLEY AND GOLDMAN
SACHS TOMORROW.
IN DAVOS, SWITZERLAND, THE
PRESIDENT ADDRESSING THE WORLD
ECONOMIC FORUM.
APPARENTLY THE BIG PUSH WILL BE
ON AFFORDABILITY.
AN INTERESTING TIME OVER THE
NEXT WEEK FOR THIS COUNTRY AND
THE REST OF THE WORLD.
TOMORROW, NELA RICHARDSON AND
AIRA MALIK.
THE OPENING BELL IS 34 MINUTES
AWAY.